 the nursery, january 1877, volume xxi, no. 1 produced by emmy, juliet sutherland and the online distributed proofreading team at music by linda cantoni. the nursery a monthly magazine for youngest readers. volume xxi.no. 1. boston john l. shorey, no. 36 bromfield street, 1877. entered according to act of congress, in the year 1877, by john l. shorey, in the office of the librarian of congress at washington. franklin press rand, avery, and company, 117 franklin street, boston. illustration contents. in prose. page work and play 1 billy and tom 5 the wise hare and her pursuers 6 gentle jessie and the wasp 8 friends in need 10 the bear that put on airs 14 drawinglesson 17 what you do, do well 20 in the winter 23 a letter to minnie 26 the hedgehog 27 the little scissorsgrinder 30 illustration in verse. page bumblebee 4 gretchen 9 a noonday lullaby 12 a squeak 18 my little sister 25 little black monkey 29 the old year and new with music 32 illustration illustration work and play. vol. xxi.no. 1. work and play. "illustration do you want your sidewalk shovelled?" this was the question asked of mr. prim, as he sat reading his newspaper, one new year's morning. the question came through a servant who had just answered the doorbell. mr. prim looked out of the window. the snow was still falling. so he sent out word, "no shovelling wanted till the storm's over," and went on with his reading. by and by there was another ring at the door and in a moment the servantgirl came in, saying, "the snowshovellers are here again, sir, and they want to see you." mr. prim stepped out into the entry, where he found two roughlooking boys, both of whom greeted him at once with, "wish you a happy new year! please, sir, it's done snowing now." "that means," said mr. prim, "that you both want the job of clearing off the sidewalk but which am i to give it to?" "oh, sir!" said the bigger boy, "we are partners. i shovel, and mike sweeps." "and what are your names?" "mine is tom murphy, and his is mike flynn." "then," said mr. prim, "the firm is 'murphy flynn.'" "that's it," said both boys with a grin. "well, murphy flynn, i will employ you to do my shovelling today, and i will give you fifty cents for the job but i am very particular. you must not leave a bit of snow anywhere about the steps or sidewalk." "all right, sir," said the boys and they went to work, while mr. prim went back to his newspaper. he had not been reading many minutes, when a loud shout in front of the house led him to look out of the window. the picture shows what he saw. there were the two boys, each mounted on one of the stone lions at the head of the steps, and shouting at the top of his lungs in the excitement of an imaginary race. mr. prim was first astonished, then angry, then amused, at this performance. he opened the window, and called out sharply, "look here, boys! do you call that work, or play?" the boys jumped down, and began to ply their broom and shovel with great vigor. but murphy looked up roguishly, and said, "we were just polishing off the lions, sir." "yes," said mr. prim, "and a paroxysm of fun got the better of you. well, it's excusable on new year's day. but, if the firm of murphy flynn expect to succeed in business, they must not mix so much play with their work." and mr. prim shut the window. "i say, mike," said tom, "what was it the old man said had got the better of us?" "that's more than i can tell," said mike. "i can't remember such hard words. but i know what he meant, and i guess he was about right." uncle sam. illustration bumblebee. illustration bumblebee superbly dressed, in velvet, jet, and gold, sailed along in eager quest, and hummed a ballad bold. morningglory clinging tight to friendly spires of grass, blushing in the early light, looked out to see him pass. nectar pure as crystal lay in her ruby cup bee was very glad to stay, just to drink it up. "fairest of the flowers," said he, "'twas a precious boon may you still a glory be, morning, night, and noon!" m. a. c. illustration billy and tom. when i was a little boy, six or seven years old, my father had two white horses, named billy and tom. billy had one black foot, and a little dark spot on his face but tom did not have a black hair on his whole body. billy was the old family horse, kind, gentle, and loving. anybody could catch him, or lead him, or drive him. he liked to be petted, and in return seemed to take pride in being kind to all in the family. tom was a good horse too but we had not owned him so long, and he did not care much to have any one pet him. billy was a little lame and though he worked everywhere on the farm, and in drawing loads on the road, yet he was generally excused from going with the carriage, except when it was necessary for some of us children to drive. one day my father went to the village with tom, leaving billy at home alone, in a field near the house. he missed his old friend tom. they had worked together so much, that they had become great friends and either one was very lonesome without the other. billy ran about here and there, neighing loudly whenever another horse appeared in sight upon the road, hoping that it might be his friend tom coming back. at last i went out to comfort him. i patted his head and his neck, and leading him by the mane to the fence, climbed first upon the fence, and then upon his back. he seemed pleased, and started in a gentle walk along the farmroad leading down into the field, away from the house. when he had gone as far as i wished to ride, i called out, "whoa!" but he was a wise old horse. instead of stopping in the middle of the road, where he then was, he turned out at one side, and stopped close by the fence, for me to get off upon that as much as to say, "a boy that is not large enough to get upon my back without climbing a fence, is not large enough to climb from my back to the ground." edith's papa. illustration the wise hare and her pursuers. a poor little hare was one day closely pursued by a brace of greyhounds. they were quite near her, when, seeing a gate, she ran for it. she got through it easily but the bars were too close together for the hounds to get through, so they had to leap over the gate. as they did so, the hare, seeing that they would be upon her the next instant, turned around and ran again under the gate where she had just before passed. the hounds, in their speed, could not turn at once. their headway took them on some distance and then they had to wheel about, and leap once more over the upper bar of the gate. illustration again the hare doubled, and returned by the way she had come and thus she went backward and forward, the dogs following till they were fairly tired out, while the little hare, watching her chance, happily made her escape. thus you see that wit and selfpossession are sometimes more than a match for superior strength and speed. if the little hare could not run so fast as the greyhounds, she could outwit them, and they saw no way to prevent it. uncle charles. illustration gentle jessie and the wasp. there is a little girl in our village whom we call "gentle jessie" for she is so kind and gentle, that even the dumb animals and the insects seem to find it out, and to trust her. on a dry pleasant day, last autumn, i saw her seated on the grass. i went up to tell her not to sit there for it is not safe to sit on the ground, even in dry weather. as i drew near to jessie from behind, i heard her talking. to whom could she be talking? there was no one by her side that is to say, no human being. but soon i found she was talking to a wasp that was coming as if to sting her. "wasp, wasp, go away, and come again another day," said she. but the wasp did not heed her. it flew quite near to her face. instead of striking at the bold insect, she merely drew back a little out of its way for she thought, "surely the wasp will not harm me, if i do not harm it." and she was right. it alighted near her for a moment, but did not sting her and gentle jessie did not try to harm it. then the wasp flew to the flowers on her hat but, not finding the food it wanted, at last it flew away. "well done, jessie," said i, lifting her from the ground, and giving her a kiss. emily carter. illustration gretchen. gretchen's old she's neat and good see her coming from the wood! she bears fagots on her back, lest her darlings fire may lack. illustration here you see her far from town, with her darlings sitting down gretchen, emma, fritz, and paul, they are happy, happy all. m. a. c. friends in need. once a poor crippled sparrow fell to the ground, and fluttered about in a vain attempt to regain a place of safety. some of its mates gathered around it, and seemed eager to help it but they did not know what to do. their chirping drew together a good many of the sparrow tribe. one thought this thing ought to be done, and another thought that. some tried to lift the helpless bird by catching its wings in their beaks but this failed, and such a chattering and scolding as took place! "i told you that wasn't the way to do it.""how stupid!""you should have taken my advice." perhaps such were the speeches which were uttered in birdlanguage for all the little creature seemed much excited. illustration presently two of the birds flew away, but soon came back with a twig six or seven inches long and an eighth of an inch thick. this was dropped before the poor little cripple, and at each end was picked up by a sparrow, and held so that the lame bird was able to catch the middle of the twig in its beak. then the crippled bird, with the aid of the other two, flew off, till they came to the wall covered with ivy, where it had its home. there it chirped to show how glad it was. all the other sparrows followed, as if to share in the pleasure of the rescue. this is a true story. ida fay. a noonday lullaby. illustration "tic, tac! tic, tac!" says the clock on the wall "sleep now, my darling, for 'tis time, 'tis time soon i will wake you with my merry chime, tic, tac! tic, tac!" "purrrr! purrrr!" tabby sings on the sill "shut your eyes, deary, and sleep in a trice, then i will stay here, and scare off the mice, purrrr! purrrr!" "coooo! coooo!" says the dove on the roof "go to sleep, pet, while i strut here and coo, as for my own pretty nestlings i do, coooo! coooo!" illustration "cut, cut, cadahcut!" cackles kind biddyhen "listen, my little one if you'll not weep, i'll lay an egg for you while you are asleep, cut, cut, cadahcut!" "moooo! moooo!" says the good moollycow "sleep, my wee man, and i'll make it fair, for i'll give you milk from bossy's own share, moooo! moooo!" "hum, hum! buz, buz!" drones the bee on the wing "fret not, my baby, but croon in your bed, i'll bring you honey to eat on your bread, hum, hum! buz, buz!" "hushshsh! hushshsh!" whisper leaves on the tree "as through our shadow soft sunlight streams, see how the angels send smiles in his dreams! hushshsh! hushshsh!" m. a. c. illustration the bear that put on airs. there was once a bear that had been tamed and made to dance by a man who beat him when he did not mind. this bear was called dandy, and he had been taught many queer tricks. he could shoulder a pole as if it were a gun, and could balance it on his nose, or stand on his hindlegs and hold it by his forepaws behind his back. he did all these things at his master's bidding because he stood in great fear of his master's whip. his master made a show of him and, though dandy did not like it, he was forced to submit. illustration but one day, when he had been left alone, the chain, that held him by a ring in his nose, got loose from the ring and dandy was soon a free bear. taking his pole, he made his way, as fast as he could, to a mountain where the woods were high and thick. here he found a number of fellowbears. instead of treating them as equals, he put on fine airs, told them what a rare life he had led among men, how many nice tricks he had learned, and how much wiser he was than all the bears that had ever lived. for a time the other bears were simple enough to take him at his word. they thought, because he said so, that he must be a very great bear indeed. he never was at a loss when they asked him a question, never would confess his ignorance, and so had to say much that was not true. dandy boasted so of the respect which men had paid him, that he made the other bears think he was doing them a great honor by living with them. he made them all wait on him. but at last a young bear, that had escaped from a trap which some men had set for him, said to dandy, "is that ring in your nose for ornament or for use?" "for ornament, of course," said dandy. "this ring was a gift from a man who was once my partner. he was so fond of me, and so pleased with my dancing, that he never tired of serving me. he brought me all my food. in fact i had him at my beck and call." "my friends," said the young bear, "he tells a fib. that ring was put in his nose to be fastened to a chain. he was held a slave by the man who, he says, treated him so finely. he was made to dance through fear of being touched up with a redhot iron. in short, he is what men call a 'humbug.'" "yes, he is a humbug," cried the others, though they did not know what the word meant. "we will have no more of his fine airs.""i never liked him.""drive him off.""send him back to his dancingmaster!""kick him!""stone him!""beat him!""we'll have no humbug here." and so poor dandy was driven out from the woods, and forced to get his living by himself while the knowing young bear that had exposed him, looked on and laughed at his misfortune. if dandy had not been so boastful if he had spoken the truth, and been modest,he might have been respected by his fellowbears to the end of his days. alfred selwyn. illustration drawinglesson by harrison weir. vol. xxi.no. 1. a squeak! i'm only a little brown mouse that lives in somebody's house, and in that same house there's a cat but oh, ho! what care i for that? she sits in the sunshine, and licks her white paws, with one eye on me, and one on her claws. how she watches the crack where she sees my brown back! but she'll never catch me! for oh, ho! don't you see that i'm just the smartest young mouse that lives anywhere in the house? i'm only a little brown mouse that lives in somebody's house, and in that same house there is rover he has chased me the whole house over. and there, too, is fat baby tim but oh, ho! what care i for him? when he sprawls on the carpet, and bumps his pink nose, i scamper around him, and tickle his toes. how he kicks and he crows! for he knows, oh, he knows, that i'm only a little brown mouse that lives in his grandmother's house. illustration i'm only a little brown mouse that lives in somebody's house and in that same house there's a clock, that says, "tickatock, tickatock!" and i've not forgotten yet quite, how once, on a very still night, i was sitting just over the clock, when it gave such a terrible knock, with a whirring and whizzing, and buzzing and fizzing, that i tumbled headlong from my perch on the shelf, and, scampering wildly, i crowded myself right under the door, through such a small crack, that i scraped all the hairs off the top of my back. oh, i am the merriest mouse that lives anywhere in a house! i love toasted cheese, and i love crusts of bread, and bits of old paper to make a soft bed. oh! i tell you it's nice to be one of the mice, and when the night comes, and the folks are abed, to rattle and race on the floor overhead. and, say, don't you wish you could run up a wall as i do, every day, without getting a fall? and don't you wish you were a mouse, living in somebody's house? fleta f. what you do, do well. "why do you take such pains in cutting out these little figures?" asked winifred of her brother ernest. "i will tell you why, sister," replied ernest. "i take pains because my teacher tells me, that, if a thing is worth doing at all, it is worth doing well." "did he mean that we should try to do well even in trifles?" asked winifred. "yes," answered ernest, "because, as a great man once said, 'perfection is no trifle.'" winifred sat looking at her brother, as, handling a pair of scissors, he carefully cut out figures of horses, dogs, pigs, and various other animals. three years afterward she remembered this conversation for it happened at that time, that, her father having died, her widowed mother was left almost destitute with a family of seven children to support. illustration what should the poor woman do? at first she thought she would take in washing, then that she would try to keep a little shop. while she was hesitating, mr. mason, a brisk old gentleman, came to the door, and asked, "where is the boy who cuts these figures and faces in profile?" one of his grandchildren had brought him home from school some specimens of ernest's skill and mr. mason saw at once that they were the work of a gifted and painstaking artist. "you must mean my little ernest," said the mother. "poor little fellow! he little dreams what is coming. i shall soon have to take him away from school." "why so?" cried mr. mason. "take him away from school? you shall do no such a thing. i'll not allow it." "we are destitute, sir, and i have no means of support," said the mother with a sigh. "no means of support! nonsense! with a boy in the house who can cut figures like that, do you say you have no means of support?" exclaimed mr. mason. "good woman, i will insure your boy good wages every week for the next year, if you will let him come between schoolhours, and cut pictures under my direction." the rest of my little story may soon be told. ernest became the staff and stay of his family. the little talent he had cultivated so carefully and diligently was the means of giving him not only an honest employment, but a liberal support. he rose to distinction and his productions were much sought after by all good judges of art. emily carter. illustration st. catherine's rock, south wales. in the winter. illustration there are some nice apples in the cellar, and william is going down with a light to get a dish full. he will pick out some that are as yellow as gold, and some that are as red as a rose. illustration this man is cutting a hole through the ice, so that the cows may drink. the stream is all frozen over. when the thick ice is broken, they can drink all they want. walk up, old brindle, and help yourself. illustration here are the fowls, and each stands on one leg. the ground is covered with snow, and their toes are very cold. so they all hold their feet under their feathers, to keep them warm. illustration the old gray cat comes in the morning, and jumps up on the children's bed. then she creeps towards them, and rubs her soft fur on the little boy's face, and wakes him up. she would like to say, "good morning!" but she only says, "mew, mew!" w. o. c. illustration my little sister. good folks who read "the nursery," this is my little sister the picture shows you truly how i caught her up, and kissed her she is so sweet, so very sweet, that i am quite decided if you could see her as she is you would do just as i did. brother carlos. a letter to minnie. the following is an exact copy of a letter found in little minnie's stocking last christmas sitting room, at mamma's desk. my dear little minnie. you must excuse my calling you by your pet name but you see i'm so fond of all good children that i can't master and miss them, and they're all tommie, and johnnie, and fannie, and minnie, to me. your stocking is so small that i can't put much of any thing into it but if that piano, with the nice white cloth on it, isn't for presents, then i'm mistaken. i shall put yours there, and i hope i sha'n't crock that tablecloth for your mamma wouldn't like to find my sooty marks all over it. though i don't see how she could expect me to be clean when she has had a softcoal fire burning in her grate all the evening, and that does make the chimney so black! if you will look at the picture of me in your new book they call me st. nicholas there, you'll see how fat i am and how do you suppose i get down such a small place? i never could if i didn't love children so much, and if i hadn't done it for so many hundred years. but i began, you see, before i grew so fat and so now i know the easiest way to do it. i hope you'll have all you wanted this year but you all grow so fast, and have so many wants from year to year, that i sometimes fear that i sha'n't always be able to satisfy you. still, as it's only the good little children that i visit, i fancy they will be pleased, whatever i bring. i must confess, though, that it isn't all guesswork. i know pretty well what my little folks want. but if you knew the amount of listening at doors and windows and registers, that i do to find out all these wants, you'd be astonished. and now, if i don't hurry off, you'll be waking up, and catch me here besides, i've staid a deal longer than i ought, for i've lots to do before daylight. but, seeing your mamma's desk and writingmaterials so handy, i really couldn't help sitting down to write you a letter. tell your brother walter, that as i brought him presents ten years before you came, he mustn't expect quite so many now for he can have no idea how many little folks i have to provide for. and if my reindeers weren't the kindest, and strongest, and fleetest of creatures, we never could get through the amount of work we have to do "the night before christmas." wishing you, and your brother, and papa, and mamma, a "merry christmas," i remain, with a heart full of love, yours, santa claus. illustration the hedgehog. the hedgehog is a queer little animal with short limbs. it feeds mostly on insects. it has its body covered with sharp spines instead of hairs, and can roll itself up in a ball, and thus show an array of prickles pointing in every direction. slow of foot, this little creature cannot flee from danger but in the sharp, hard, and tough prickles of its coat, it has a safeguard better than the teeth and claws of the wildcat, or the fleetness of the hare. the hedgehog has powerful muscles beneath the skin of the back and by the aid of these, on the slightest alarm, it rolls itself up so as to have its head and legs hidden in the middle of the ball it thus makes of itself. our dog snip saw a hedgehog, the other day, for the first time. as soon as it saw him, the little creature seemed to change from a live thing into a ball. snip did not know what to make of it. his curiosity was much excited. he went up, and looked at it. if the two could have spoken, i think this would have been their talk snip."of all the queer things i ever saw, you are the queerest. what are you anyhow?" hedgehog."suppose you put out your paw, and try." snip."i don't like the look of those prickles." hedgehog."don't be a coward, snip! put your nose down, and feel of my nice soft back." whether the cunning hedgehog really cheated him by any such remarks as these, i cannot say. but snip at last mustered courage enough to put his nose down to the ball. rash snip! up rose the bristles, and pricked him so that he ran back to the house, howling and yelping as if he had been shot. having put snip to flight, the hedgehog quietly unrolled itself, thrust out its queer little head with the long snout, and crept along on its way rejoicing. as for snip, i am quite sure he will never put his nose to the back of a hedgehog again, as long as he lives. charles selwyn. illustration illustration little black monkey little black monkey sat up in a tree little black monkey, he grinned at me he put out his paw for a cocoanut, and he dropped it down on my occiput. the occiput is a part, you know, of the head which does on my shoulders grow and it's very unpleasant to have it hit, especially when there's no hair on it. i took up my gun, and i said, "now why, little black monkey, should you not die? i'll hit you soon in a vital part, it may be your head, or it may be your heart." i steadied the gun, and i aimed it true the trigger it snapped, and the bullet it flew but just where it went to, i cannot tell, for i never could see where that bullet fell. little black monkey still sat in the tree, and placidly, wickedly, grinned at me i took up my gun, and walked away, and postponed his death till another day. laura e. richards. the little scissorsgrinder. willie is a threeyearold darling. this summer he visited his aunt in the city, and was very much interested in the curious sights and sounds which abound there. a few days after his return home, when his mamma sat on the piazza with some friends, willie marched up the gravel path with his little wheelbarrow on his back. he stopped at the foot of the steps, set his burden down, resting it upon the handles, so that it stood upright. then holding it with one hand, and rolling the wheel with the other, he kept his foot rising and falling, just as if he were at work with a genuine treadle. he looked very sober, and said, "please, madam, have you any scissors to sharpen?" the ladies handed him several pairs, which he ground in the best style, trying the edge with his finger, and at last passing them to the owner with the request for ten cents. illustration mamma gave him a bit of paper, which he put into his pocket, returning the change in the form of two leaves. when he had finished his task, he shouldered the wheelbarrow, and was saying "goodafternoon," when one of the party ran after him, calling to him to kiss her. "scissorsgrinders don't kiss," he said but the fun sparkled in his bright black eye, and he burst into a hearty laugh, which must have been a relief to the merry boy after being sober so long. mrs. g. illustration illustration music the old year and the new. words by marian douglas. music by t. crampton. 1. the north winds blow o'er drifts of snow. out in the cold who goes from here? "goodby! goodby!" loud voices cry "goodby!" returns the brave old year. but looking back what word leaves he? "oh, you must all good children be!" 2. a knock, a knock! 'tis twelve o'clock! this time of night, pray who comes here? oh, now i see, 'tis he! 'tis he! all people know the glad new year! what has he brought? and what says he? "oh, you must all good children be!" illustration the nursery premiumlist. introductory remarks. illustration the publication of "the nursery" was begun in 1867. the work met a want which was then wholly unsupplied, and it was at once received with a high degree of public favor. since then it has gone on increasing, from year to year, in circulation and in reputation,maintaining its supremacy over all imitators and rivals,and it now holds a firmly established place among firstclass american periodicals, and is admitted to be the best magazine in the world for the class of readers to whom it is addressed. its articles, whether in prose or verse, are adapted with the greatest care to the capacities of children, and are, with very rare exceptions, wholly original. its illustrations, which are given with great profuseness, are engraved in the highest style of art, and, in most cases, from designs made expressly for "the nursery," by the best american artists. such as are not original, are reproductions of the choicest pictures to be found in the foreign juvenile periodicals. a song set to music by a skilful composer, and specially adapted to children's voices, is given in every number of the magazine. altogether, its pages furnish just such a variety as is best fitted to the wants of children from infancy up to the age of twelve years. in schools it is found to answer admirably as a firstreader and in remote districts, where there are no schools, it takes the place of a teacher for thousands of children have been taught to read by "the nursery" alone. a work which is at once so useful and so attractive, cannot fail to be in demand in every family where there are young children. its low price, 1.60 a year, free of postage, places it within the reach of all classes. we rely upon its merits alone to secure its circulation, and send a sample copy by mail, for ten cents, to any person who wishes to examine it. we do not hire anybody to subscribe but if any one procures subscriptions for us, we are always ready to make a suitable compensation. with this view, we present the following list of premiums. the articles described are all of the best quality, and many of them such as are wanted in every household. besides offering them as premiums, we are prepared to supply them for cashsending them by mail or otherwise on the most favorable terms. we therefore suggest to every person who receives this pamphlet, that it would be well to preserve it carefully for future reference. explanations and instructions. 1. previously to this date, sept. 1876, our offers of premiums have applied to new subscriptions only. hereafter, in awarding premiums, we shall make no distinction between new subscriptions and renewals. 2. premiums are offered for procuring subscriptionsnot for subscribing. but the applicant's own subscription or renewal, when he procures one or more other names to send with it, will, of course, be counted. 3. the full subscription price one dollar and sixty cents must be paid for each name. no premium is given for subscriptions supplied at club rates. 4. the money must always be sent, with the names, direct to the publisher. no premium is given for subscriptions sent through agents. no name is entered on our books until the money is received. 5. do not wait to make up your whole list before sending. send the first two names, stating that they are to be placed to your credit for a premium, and add more as you get them. 6. bear in mind that we do not give a premium or open an account for less than two subscriptions one of which, however, may be your own but, after the account is opened, you may add one subscription at a time if you choosenever omitting to state in your letter that it is to go to your credit for a premium. 7. write the name and address of each subscriber plainly, and always state whether a renewal or a new name and when you call for your premium, be sure to give your own name and address so plainly that it cannot be mistaken. 8. date your letters carefully, and state in them always the exact amount of money sent, and the form in which it is sentwhether in bankbills, check or postalorder. it is a good plan to keep a copy of your letter. 9. if you do not receive the magazine promptly in response to your remittance, or if you do not promptly receive any premium that you may have ordered, notify us immediately, stating always the date of your previous letter. wait a sufficient time for ordinary delays of the mailbut no longer. how to remit. 1. if you are near a moneyorder post office, remit always by a postal moneyorder. money can be sent in this way at very small expense, and with absolute safety. 2. the next best mode of remittance is a check on a boston, new york, or philadelphia bank. all other checks subject us to expense in collecting to cover this, add fifteen cents. 3. money may be sent by mail, in a letter carefully sealed and directed, and prepaid by stamps. it is advisable always to have the letter registered. letters can be registered in any post office. illustration right index if, in making change, you find any difficulty in procuring postal currency, bear in mind that we will accept postagestamps as currency. all remittances are at the risk of the sender. direct to the publisher, john l. shorey. no. 36 bromfield street, boston, mass. illustration office of "the nursery." premiums. section i. for two subscribers. two subscriptions, with three dollars and twenty cents in payment therefor, will entitle the sender to any book or other article described in this section. all premiums will be sent postpaid. books. halfyearly volumes of "the nursery,"two volumes a year have been issued since the commencement of the magazine in 1867, so there is now a large number to choose from. they are beautifully bound in cloth and gilt, and form, all together, a complete juvenile library. price, per volume 1.00 the beautiful book.this is a collection of some of the best poems that have appeared in "the nursery." it is an elegant volume of 128 pages, exquisitely illustrated. price .75 the easy book.prepared expressly for children just learning to read. in large old english type, with a profusion of pictures and delightful objectlessons. 128 pages. price .75 oxford's junior speaker.a collection of exercises for declamation and recitation, with many dialogues never before published. adapted to the young of both sexes. with numerous illustrations. 216 pages. price .90 simple addition and nursery jingles.contains simple addition and fiftyfive nursery jingles, with twentytwo fullpage, and four doublepage illustrations in colors. price 1.00 little folks' colored picture book.contains thirtysix stories, with sixteen fullpage illustrations in colors. royal 8vo. cloth. price 1.00 uncle john's drolleries.contains the ark alphabet, dash's holiday, miss mouser's tea party, and the ten little niggers, with four doublepage, eighteen fullpage, and twelve halfpage illustrations. royal 8vo. price 1.00 illustration right index besides giving the above as premiums, we offer them for sale, postpaid, at the prices named. little classic series. a series of exquisitely printed little volumes, in flexible binding and red edges. any volume of "the little classics." price, per volume 1.00 this is a series of handy volumes, containing many of the choicest short stories, sketches and poems in english literature. the following list presents the contents of each volume, viz. 1.exile. ethan brand hawthorne the swans of lir gerald griffin a night in a workhouse, jas. greenwood the outcasts of poker fiat, bret harte the man without a country hale flight of a tartar tribe dequincey 2.intellect. the house and the brain bulwer l'outre mort harriet prescott spofford the fall of the house of usher poe chops, the dwarf dickens wakefield hawthorne murder considered as one of the fine arts dequincey the captain's story, rebecca harding davis 3.tragedy. the murders in rue morgue poe the lauson tragedy deforest the iron shroud wm. mudford the bell tower herman melville the kathayan slave mrs. judson the story of la roche, henry mackenzie the vision of sudden death dequincey 4.life. rab and his friends dr. john brown a romance of real life w. d. howells the luck of roaring camp bret harte jerry jarvis's wig r. h. barham beauty and the beast willis david swan hawthorne dreamthorp alexander smith a bachelor's reverie d. g. mitchell the grammar of life b. f. taylor my chateaux g. w. curtis dream children charles lamb the man in the reservoir c. f. hoffman westminster abbey addison the puritans macaulay gettysburg abraham lincoln 5.laughter. a christmas carol dickens the haunted crust katherine saunders a dissertation upon roast pig lamb the total depravity of inanimate things mrs. e. a. walker the skeleton in the closet hale sandy wood's sepulchre hugh miller a visit to the asylum for decayed punsters holmes mr. tibbot o'leary the curious, gerald griffin neal malone william carleton 6.love. love and skates theodore winthrop the maid of malines bulwer the story of ruth from the bible the rise of iskander disraeli 7.romance. iris holmes the rosicrucian miss mulock the south breaker, harriet prescott spofford the snow storm christopher north the king of the peak, allan cunningham 8.mystery. the ghost w. d. o'connor the fourfifteen express, amelia b. edwards the signal man dickens the haunted ship cunningham a raft that no man made, robt. t. s. lowell the invisible princess, francis o'connor the advocate's wedding day, catherine crowe the birthmark hawthorne 9.comedy. barney o'reirdon, the navigator lover hadadbenahab, the traveller john galt bluebeard's ghost thackeray the picnic party horace smith father tom and the pope samuel ferguson john darbyshire william howitt the gridiron lover the box tunnel reade 10.childhood. a dog of flanders ouida the king of the golden river ruskin the lady of shalott miss phelps marjorie fleming john brown little jakey mrs. s. h. dekroyft the lost child henry kingsley goody gracious! and the forgetmenot john neal a faded leaf of history, rebecca harding davis a child's dream of a star dickens 11.heroism. little briggs and i fitzhugh ludlow ray harriet prescott spofford three november days b. f. taylor the fortyseven ronins a. b. mitford a chance child isabella mayo a leaf in the storm ouida 12.fortune. the gold bug poe the fairy finder lover murad the unlucky maria edgeworth the children of the public hale the rival dreamers john banim the threefold destiny hawthorne 13.narrative poems. the deserted village goldsmith the ancient mariner coleridge the prisoner of chillon byron bingen on the rhine mrs. norton o'connor's child campbell kilmeny hogg the dream of eugene aram hood lady barbara alexander smith the sensitive plant shelley the eve of st. agnes keats paradise and the peri moore the raven poe the skeleton in armor longfellow the haunted house hood the writing on the image morris tam o'shanter burns the forging of the anchor samuel ferguson morte d'arthur tennyson horatius macaulay 14.lyrical poems. locksley hall tennyson my lost youth longfellow intimations of immortality wordsworth ode to happiness lowell l'allegro and il penseroso milton elegy in a country churchyard gray the bridge of sighs hood the problem emerson the passions collins the bonnets of bonnie dundee scott at port royal whittier how they brought the good news from ghent to aix browning ode on the duke of wellington tennyson commemoration ode lowell and many other poems. 15.minor poems. the chambered nautilus holmes the children's hour longfellow the courtin' lowell evelyn hope browning highland mary burns kubla khan coleridge my child pierpont my psalm whittier oh? why should the spirit of mortal be proud? president lincoln's favourite poem. she was a phantom of delight wordsworth thanatopsis bryant the three fishers kingsley toujours amour stedman a woman's question adelaide anne proctor bugle song tennyson the age of wisdom thackeray i remember, i remember hood the ivy green dickens a lament shelley maid of athens byron night and death blanco white the old man's idyl richard realf a petition to time barry cornwall the skylark james hogg philip, my king miss mulock tom bowling dibdin virtue george herbert and numerous other poems. 16.authors. containing brief biographies of all the authors from whose writings the fifteen preceding volumes of "little classics" have been taken. with complete index. sixteen volumes. 32mo. tastefully bound. price, per volume, 1.00 illustration holy bible a neat english bible, with gilt clasp, and gilt edges. price 1.00 book of common prayer, with gilt clasps and gilt edges. price 1.00 whittier's poetical works. complete. fully illustrated. 8vo. paper. price 1.00 tennyson's poetical works. complete. fully illustrated. 8vo. paper. price 1.00 longfellow's poems. complete. fully illustrated. 8vo. paper 1.00 these inexpensive editions of the most popular living poets, are tasteful, excellently printed, and well illustrated. diamond editions of the following poets. price, per volume 1.00 burns. harte. longfellow. lowell. proctor. saxe. scott. tennyson. whittier. longfellow's christus. owen meredith's lucille. dickens's works.any one of the popular household edition. paper. 8vo. price per vol. 1.00 illustration right indexbesides giving the above as premiums, we offer them for sale, postpaid, at the prices named. every woman her own flower gardener. by daisy eyebright mrs. s. o. johnson. a delightful little treatise on outdoor gardening for ladiespractical, timely, charmingly written. contains valuable information about pansies, roses, geraniums, climbing plants, annuals, perennials, fuchsias, ribbon beds, c. printed in excellent taste. bound in cloth. price 1.00 illustration right indexwe will give as a premium for two subscriptions, at 1.60 each, any book the price of which does not exceed one dollar. it may be selected from any publisher's catalogue. miscellaneous articles. illustration building blocks alphabet and building blocks.containing roman alphabetslarge and small lettersnumerals and animalspainted blocks. price 1.00 crandall's alphabetblocks.red, white, and blue. waterproof. all children are pleased with them. price 1.00 combination toyblocks irregular shapes.these blocks are made up of geometrical figures, cut with mathematical precision from fine maple wood. they are very instructive, and are often used in schools for drawing exercises and geometrical illustrations. they will make finished architectural designs, such as churches, forts, monuments, boats, c. also every letter of the alphabet. mode of using simple and easy. put up in cherry boxes with sliding covers, fine label, and illustrated book of directions. price 1.00 one hundred funny fellows.large showy cubes.when matched together, make a hundred comical figures. printed in colors. price 1.00 a checkerboard and checkers. price 1.00 a microscope.for examining insects, flowers, etc. price 1.00 illustration right indexbesides giving the above as premiums, we offer them for sale, postpaid, at the prices named. ladies' shawl strap.with two long straps, handle, and bar. price 1.00 child's table set.consisting of knife, fork, and spoon. price 1.00 a pocket compass.accurate.watch pattern. price 1.00 dissected map of the united states.printed in colors, judiciously arranged so as to bring out prominently the different states. price 1.00 illustration checkered game of life this game is so simple that any child who can read may learn to play it. it is not simply a game of chance, but in every move there is an opportunity for the exercise of the judgment. the accompanying cut represents the game board. two, three, or four can play, and each player is represented by one counter, or man, which is entered at infancy, and by various means regulated by the throw of a tetotum, or die, passes through school, college, industry, success, perseverance, etc., to wealth or happy old age or through idleness, intemperance, gambling, crime, etc., to disgrace, poverty, ruin, suicide, or prison. price 1.00 a small rubber pencil case.goldtipped. price price 1.00 a small writingdesk.embossed cloth made to contain paper, envelopes, etc. price 1.00 illustration tool holder a patent pocket toolholder.it is made of hard maple. in it are neatly packed 20 cast steel tools. it can be carried in the pocket, and yet the tools it contains are so many and so varied, and of such convenient size, as to make it almost a necessity to any boy or to any family. price 1.00 a pocket knife.two blades. nice english steel. very neat. price 1.00 a nice morocco portmonnaie.made of the best materials. new pattern. price 1.00 a butter knife.silverplated. extra quality. price 1.00 a sugarshell.extra quality. silverplated. a handsome pattern. price 1.00 illustration plated pencil a goldplated pencil.price 1.00 a neat portfolio.beautifully embossed, well made, with four pockets, and blottingpaper, lock and key. price 1.00 illustration right index besides giving the above as premiums, we offer them for sale, postpaid, at the prices named. the florence steel skate.the runners are of highly tempered steel castings. metal sole and heel plates. very strong and durable. price 1.00 illustration send length of boot when ordering. illustration sleeve buttons sleeve buttons.best gold plate. new style. this size. price 1.00 illustration ladies cuff pins ladies' cuff pins.fine gold plate. new pattern. this size. price 1.00 illustration forget me not illuminated silkwoven book marks.these new and beautiful productions of the loom are the wonder and admiration of all who see them. each design is woven in silk in beautiful colors. the engraving here given is a careful reproduction of one of them on a very small scale, and will give a faint outline of its beauty. from the large list of mottoes and designs, we have made the following selections, which we specially commend. for two subscribers select two of series 1, or one of series 2. series no. 1. price 50 cents each. no. the busy bee 76 little red riding hood 85 for a good girl 88 mistress mary 94 to my darling 96 the lily 68 compliments of the season 70 god is good 73 a blessing 78 to my dear brother 79 unchanging love 82 to my dear sister 83 to my dear father 84 to my dear mother 86 to one i love 101 a happy christmas series no. 2. price 1.00 each. no. honor thy father and mother 161 remember the sabbath day 162 the lord's prayer 163 blessed are the merciful 164 the doxology 167 the lord is my shepherd 170 a happy new year 174 remember me 175 faith, hope and charity 180 hope, the anchor of my soul 252 remember now thy creator 257 a happy new year 260 a birthday blessing 266 many happy returns of the day 269 i love thee 278 the priceless gem 288 unchanging love 289 true love 293 may our hearts be united illustration right index besides giving the above as premiums, we offer them for sale, postpaid, at the prices named. section ii. for three subscribers. three subscriptions, with four dollars and eighty cents in payment therefor, will entitle the sender to any book or other article described in this section. all premiums will be sent postpaid. books. any yearly volume of "the nursery."beautifully bound in cloth. the magazine began in 1867. price 1.75 oxford's senior speaker.a collection of exercises in declamation and recitation, for advanced classes, comprising many dialogues and select pieces never before published. with ninety illustrations. price 1.50 sargent's original dialogues.a collection for school and family reading and representation. price 1.50 an elegant edition of shakspeare.complete in one volume full cloth, extra gilt and gilt edges. price 1.50 any one of the standard british poets.in one volume full cloth, extra gilt and gilt edges. price 1.50 aunt louisa's little treasure.contains four storiestit, tiny, and tittens, three good friends, fourfooted friends, and three little kittens. twentyfour fullpage illustrations in colors. 4to. cloth, beveled edges, embossed in black and gold, with fine chromatic illustration mounted on cover. price 1.50 good old stories.containsmother hubbard, three bears, cock robin, and tom thumb. twentyfour fullpage illustrations in colors. 4to. cloth, beveled edges, embossed in black and gold, with fine chromatic illustration mounted on cover. price 1.50 ofttold tales new.containsrobinson crusoe, children in the wood, hare and tortoise, and worldwide fables. twentyfour fullpage illustrations in colors. 4to. cloth, beveled edges, embossed in black and gold, with fine chromatic illustration mounted on cover. price 1.50 illustration right index besides giving the above as premiums, we offer them for sale postpaid, at the prices named. sunnybank stories.compiled by rev. asa bullard. profusely illustrated. bound in high colors. the whole setsix volumes in allput up in a neat box. price 1.50 aunt louisa's weewee stories.comprisescountry alphabet, baby, hey diddle diddle, and my mother. twentyfour fullpage illustrations. 4to. cloth, beveled edges, embossed in black and gold, with fine chromatic illustration on cover. price 1.50 aunt louisa's child's delight.containsrip van winkle, yankee doodle, pocahontas, and putnam. twentyfour fullpage illustrations in colors. 4to. cloth, beveled edges, embossed in black and gold, with fine chromatic illustration mounted on cover. price 1.50 aunt louisa's fairy legends.containspuss n boots, jack and the bean stalk, white cat, and cinderella. twentyfour fullpage illustrations in colors. 4to. cloth, beveled edges, embossed in black and gold, with fine chromatic illustration mounted on cover. price 1.50 illustration window gardening window gardening.an elegant book, with 250 fine engravings and 300 pages, containing a descriptive list of all plants suitable for window culture, directions for their treatment, and practical information about plants and flowers for the parlor, conservatory, wardian case, fernery or window garden. tells all about bulbs for house culture, geraniums, hanging baskets, insects, plant decoration of apartments. the illustrations are unusually beautiful, and many of them perfect gems of exquisite beauty. price 1.50 household elegancies.a splendid new book on household art, devoted to a multitude of topics, interesting to ladies everywhere. among the most popular subjects are transparencies on glass, leaf work, autumn leaves, wax work, painting, leather work, picture frames, brackets, wall pockets, work boxes and baskets, skeleton leaves, etc. hundreds of exquisite illustrations decorate the pages, which are full to overflowing with hints and devices to every lady, how to ornament her home cheaply, tastefully and delightfully, with fancy articles of her own construction. by far the most popular and elegant giftbook of the year. price 1.50 ladies' fancy work.a companion volume to "household elegancies." it contains 300 pages, and is illustrated with over 350 fine engravings. it gives full instructions for making feather work, paper flowers, fire screens, shrines, rustic pictures, a charming series of designs for easter crosses, straw ornaments, shell flowers and shell work, bead mosaic, designs in embroidery, and an immense number of designs of other fancy work to delight all lovers of household art and recreation. price 1.50 illustration silhouette long look house.with six fullpage silhouettes, by miss hinds, and several outline sketches by the author, 1 vol. 16mo. tinted paper 1.25 out doors at long look.the second volume of the series contains four full page silhouettes, designed by miss hinds, and three fullpage wood cuts. also eighteen emblematic silhouettes at the head of the chapters. this volume introduces many new and exciting scenes, and is intensely interesting. 1 vol. 16mo. 1.25 autograph albums.beautiful bindings 1.50 minnie and her pets.any two of the following viz. minnie's pet parrot. minnie's pet cat. minnie's pet dog. minnie's pet pony. minnie's pet lamb. minnie's pet monkey. price per volume .75 little prudy stories.by sophie may. any two of the following viz. little prudy. little prudy's sister susy. little prudy's captain horace. little prudy's cousin grace. little prudy's story book. little prudy's dotty dimple. price per volume .75 little prudy's flyaway series.any two of the following viz. little folks astray. prudy keeping house. aunt madge's story. little grandmother. little grandfather. miss thistledown. price per volume .75 dickens's works.any volume of harper's household edition. illustrated. cloth. price 1.50 illustration right index we will give as a premium for three subscriptions at 1.60 each, any book the price of which does not exceed one dollar and fifty cents. it may be selected from any publisher's catalogue. illustration right index besides giving the above as premiums, we offer them for sale, postpaid, at the prices named. miscellaneous articles. illustration toys kindergarten alphabet and building blocks.containing alphabets, numerals, animals, c. price 1.50 the little object teacher.colored illustrations. price 1.50 crandall's buildingblocks.can be made into forms of almost endless variety. the blocks are put up in neat, strong boxes, and a large sheet giving various designs of buildings, etc., accompanies each box. price, 1.25 illustration acrobats crandall's acrobats.full of fun and frolic, and most brilliant in costume. these are among the most fascinating and ingenious toys ever invented. the number of figures which can be made with the pieces in a single box, is limited only by the ingenuity of the operator. price 1.25 parlor table croquet.eight mallets, two stakes, ten weighted wickets, belt and balls. price 1.50 a heavily plated gold pencil.price 1.50 illustration right index besides giving the above as premiums, we offer them for sale, postpaid, at the prices named. illustration john gilpin and his horse crandall's john gilpin.this beautiful and interesting toy is regarded by mr. crandall as the masterpiece of his inventions thus far for the little folks. it is made up of two figures, john gilpinwhose highly colored dress is specially attractive to boys and girlsand his horse, which intelligent animal performs a very important part in the illustration of john gilpin's famous ride. price 1.50 a beautiful rubber pencil, with goldplated tips. price 1.50 illustration fruit knife a silver fruit knife and nutpick.price 1.50 a new terrestrial globe.beautifully printed in colors. price. 1.50 fret or jig saw, for fancy woodcarving. with 50 designs, and sawblades, impressionpaper, c. price 1.50 illustration flowervase silverplated flowervase.new pattern. elegant design. price 1.50 a set of drawing instruments.price 1.50 a set of gold bosom studs. price 1.50 a neat photograph album.leather covers, clasp, gilt edges and ornamented no. 1. price 1.50 fuller's jigsaw attachment, by the aid of which the use of the saw is greatly facilitated. see cut on another page. price 1.50 illustration squails american squails.ebonite enameled. this is the jolliest game ever invented. played on a common dining table by any convenient number of persons. price 1.50 illustration writing desk a beautiful writing desk, with paper, envelopes, holder, pencil, c. price 1.50 a box of stationeryinitial or plain.variety of tints. paper and envelopes to match. price, 1.50 illustration right index besides giving the above as premiums, we offer them for sale, postpaid, at the prices named. illustration pocket stove the american patent pocket stove.invaluable in every nursery, sick room, and camp. this stove makes no smoke, no dirt, and causes no trouble. the fuel alcohol when poured into the stove, being held in absorption by the packing asbestos, is perfectly harmless. it is lighted and extinguished instantly. the stove can be got ready for use in one minute. among its uses are boiling eggs, coffee, milk, tea, water heating medicine, children's and invalid's food broiling meat, fish, and fowl. saving coal, wood, gas, and thousands of steps. price 1.50 illustration shawl pin goldplated shawl pin.very beautiful. best gold plate. new pattern. this size. price 1.50 a telescope or spy glass 1.50 a goldplated bracelet.very pretty 1.50 a travelling handbag.ornaments, lock and key 1.50 a stereoscope.black walnut. price 1.50 a beautiful morocco wallet or portmonnaie, of the best manufacture. price 1.50 a magnifying glass.frame of german silver, handle of black ebony, glass of the best quality. price 1.50 illustration magnifying glass illustration right index besides giving the above as premiums, we offer them for sale, postpaid, at the prices named. section iii. for four subscribers. four subscriptions, with six dollars and forty cents in payment therefor, will entitle the sender to any book or other article described in this section. all premiums will be sent postpaid. books. longfellow's poems. 1 vol. price 2.00 owen meredith's poems. 1 vol. price 2.00 tennyson's poems. 1 vol. price 2.00 whittier's poems. 1 vol. price 2.00 the vestpocket series.any four of the following volumes viz. vol. 1. snowbound. by whittier. 2. evangeline. by longfellow. 3. power, wealth, illusions. by emerson. 4. culture, behavior, beauty. by emerson. 5. the courtship of miles standish. by longfellow. 6. enoch arden. by tennyson. 7. nathaniel hawthorne. by j. t. fields. 8. a day's pleasure. by w. d. howells. 9. the vision of sir launfal. by lowell. 10. a christmas carol. by dickens. 11. lady geraldine's courtship. by mrs. browning. 12. the deserted village and the traveller. by goldsmith. 13. rab and his friends and marjorie fleming. by dr. john brown. 14. the rime of the ancient mariner. by coleridge. 15. barry cornwall and his friends. by j. t. fields. 16. the eve of st. agnes. by keats. price per volume .50 these miniature volumes are of the same general order with "little classics," which have proved so universally popular, but smaller every way, except in type. their typographical beauty, fine paper, tasteful binding, dainty size, and, yet more, the sterling and popular character of their contents, have gained for them a general welcome. illustration right index besides giving the above as premiums, we offer them for sale postpaid, at the prices named. a superb pocketbible.with gilt rims, corners, and clasps. price 2.00 whittier's songs of three centuries. 1 vol. price 2.00 among my books.second series. by james russell lowell. dante, spenser, wordsworth, milton, keats. price 2.00 will carleton's farm legends.with illustrations. price 2.00 will carleton's farm ballads.with illustrations. price 2.00 little people of the poets.a volume of favorite child poems. price 2.00 sop's fables.with 114 illustrations. 12mo. cloth. price 2.00 popular nursery tales and rhymes.with 180 illustrations. square 8vo. cloth. price 2.00 robinson crusoe.with 300 beautiful illustrations by granville. 12mo. cloth. price 2.00 dictionary of quotations from the greek, latin, and modern languages, translated into english. price 2.00 wood's natural history picture books.as follows mammalia. with 180 illustrations. fcap., 4to., cloth. price 2.00 birds. with 240 illustrations. fcap. 4to., cloth. price 2.00 reptiles, fishes, and insects. 240 illustrations. fcap, 4to., cloth. price 2.00 boys' and girls' illustrated giftbook.with 200 fine illustrations. square 8vo. cloth. price 2.00 boys' book of trades.with 200 illustrations. square 8vo. cloth. price 2.00 boys' treasury of sports and pastimes.profusely illustrated. 12mo. cloth. price 2.00 child's picture storybook.with 400 illustrations. square 8vo. cloth. price 2.00 the student's history of greece.a history of greece, from the earliest times to the roman conquest. with supplementary chapters on the history of literature and art. by wm. smith, ll.d. illustrations. 12mo, cloth. price 2.00 the student's history of rome.a history of rome, from the earliest times to the establishment of the empire, with chapters on the history of literature and art. by h. g. liddell, d.d., dean of christ church, oxford. illustrations, 12mo, cloth. price 2.00 the student's gibbon.a history of the decline and fall of the roman empire. by edward gibbon. abridged. incorporating the researches of recent commentators. by wm. smith, ll.d. illustrations. 12mo, cloth. price 2.00 illustration right index besides giving the above as premiums, we offer them for sale, postpaid, at the prices named. the student's hume.a history of england, from the earliest times to the revolution in 1688. by david hume. abridged. incorporating the corrections and researches of recent historians, and continuing down to the year 1858. illustrations. 12mo, cloth. price 2.00 the student's strickland.lives of the queens of england, from the roman conquest. by agnes strickland. abridged by the author. revised and edited by caroline g. parker. illustrations. 12mo, cloth. price, 2.00 the student's history of france.a history of france, from the earliest times to the establishment of the second empire in 1852. by rev. w. h. jervis, m.a. illustrations. 12mo, cloth. price 2.00 illustration right index we will give as a premium for four subscriptions at 1.60 each, any book the price of which does not exceed two dollars. it may be selected from any publisher's catalogue. miscellaneous articles. illustration book an elegant photograph album.price 2.00 illustration barometer and thermometer what will the weather be tomorrow?pool's signal service barometer and thermometer combined. fortells correctly any change in the weather, 12 to 24 hours in advance. endorsed by the most eminent professors and scientific men as the best weather indicator in the world. warranted perfect and reliable. price 2.00 illustration skate the florence bronze skate. it has the best combination of clamps and straps for fastening to the boot ever produced. the runners are of the best forged steel, and for durability and finish cannot be excelled. send length of boot when ordering. price 2.00 illustration right index besides giving the above as premiums, we offer them for sale, postpaid, at the prices named. illustration stereoscope a stereoscope.with 6 views. price, 2.00 nursery alphabet spelling blocks.this set contains twentyeight flat blocks, three inches wide and five inches long. put up in cherry boxes, sliding covers, and handsome varnished label. price 2.00 rubber football.price 1.75 six silver plated teaspoons.price 2.00 a gold ringplain or engraved. price 2.00 a silver napkin ringnew and elegant design. price 2.00 silver fruit knife and nut pickextra heavy. price 2.00 a silver cupheavily plated. a very desirable gift. price 2.00 a gold pen and penholder.price 2.00 illustration knife, fork and spoon knife, fork, and spoon.price 2.00 goody two shoes spelling blocks.these are flat blocks, one and threequarter inches long and one and a quarter inch wide. price. 2.00 a lady's portmonnaie.fine morocco, with trimmings and clasp. price 2.00 a family tool chest.price 2.00 illustration pocket knife pocket knife.three blades. finest cutlery. price 2.00 illustration right index besides giving the above as premiums, we offer them for sale, postpaid, at the prices named. section iv. for five subscribers. five subscriptions, with eight dollars in payment therefor, will entitle the sender to any article described in this section. all premiums will be sent postpaid. ladies' scissors or shears.of the best steel, warranted durable. price 2.50 a neat backgammon board.with cups, dice, and checkers. price 2.50 a globe.six inches in diameter beautifully colored suitable for home and school. price 2.50 a silver fruit knife.pure silver elegant design. price 2.50 illustration jig saw jig or fret saw, with fuller's patent attachment.by the aid of fuller's attachment the little jig or fret saw can be made to execute more satisfactory work with less labor and time and less breakage of sawblades. it renders sawing very easy and simple. it will also produce, easily, the new work marquetry, or inlaid work, of the finest description, which, without the aid of this attachment, would be impossible. it is very simple in construction, and durable, and affords both amusement and profit to old and young of both sexes. price 2.50 illustration mathematical instruments a complete set of mathematical instruments.in a rosewood box, with lock and key. price 2.50 a goldplated neckchain.very handsome. new style. price 2.50 six teaspoons.extra silver plated. 2.50 goldtipped rubber pencil.beautiful pattern. price 2.50 illustration right index besides giving the above as premiums, we offer them for sale, postpaid, at the prices named. section v. premiums may be selected from this section proportionate in value to the number of subscribers sent, viz. for three subscriptions, articles worth 1.50 for six subscriptions, articles worth 3.00 for eight subscribers, articles worth 4.00and so on. illustration jack straws american jack straws.two qualities. price no. 1 .60 no. 2 .30 illustration monarchs thrones a new game of history. very instructive. price .60 donnybrook fair.a very amusing game, with more than thirty comic illustrations. published in handsome style. price .50 illustration toy cannon the toy cannon.the cannon is about eight inches long. wooden balls and a set of nine pins accompany it. a very pretty toy 1.00 shakespeare characters and quotations.a game of standard character, adapted for any number of players, old or young .50 illustration right index besides giving the above as premiums, we offer them for sale, postpaid, at the prices named. the harlequin circle.an original, very entertaining, and instructive pastime, with a book giving 64 colored illustrations of the "harlequin circle." put up in handsome box. price .50 game of proverbs.first series .25 " " second series .25 illustration skate the florence spring skate.highly polished, forged steel runners, with blued steel plates and clamps. the clamp and strap spring skate is fastened to the foot by both clamps and straps. send length of boot when ordering. price 3.00 lyman's chromo blocks.thoroughly waterproof. the pictures are brilliant and very beautiful no. 1. 6 blocks 36 chromos .60 no. 2. 9 " 54 " 1.00 no. 3. 16 " 96 " 1.50 carpenter's manual.instructs in the use of tools and the various operations of the trade. a very complete and explicit work .50 painter's manual.a complete practical guide to house and sign painting, graining, varnishing, polishing, kalsomining, papering, lettering, staining, gilding, glazing, silvering, analysis of colors, harmony, contrast, c. .50 home cook books. mrs. chadwick's home cookery.containing foreign and domestic tried receipts .50 mrs. knights' titbits, or how to prepare a nice dish at a moderate expense .75 mrs. cornelius's young housekeeper's friend 1.50 marion harland's common sense in the household.a manual of practical housewifery 1.75 illustration right index or any of the numerous cook books sent by mail at publisher's price. illustration right index besides giving the above as premiums, we offer them for sale, postpaid, at the prices named. illustration city the game of bible characters and events.price .50 bible questions.a game .25 "ye hero of '76."the great centennial toy. price .50 portrait authors.a game .50 avilude, or game of birds.price, .50 ferrilude, or game of beasts. .50 game of letters.price .25 totem.a beautiful game. price, .25 anybody and everybody.price, .25 the game of '76, or the eagle and the lion.price .50 illustration model ship puzzle from the use of which the names of the parts of a ship are readily learned. 1.25 illustration shedler's public school globe. globes.three sizes, viz. three inches in diameter 1.00 four " " 1.50 five " " 2.50 illustration silver napkin ring silver napkin ring.new pattern elegant designs. price proportionate to weight. medium 3.00 heavy 4.00 extra 5.00 scholar's companion.a hollow, round ruler, with rubber, spongeholder, pen, and slate and lead pencil. price, .30 great republic.a game. 1.25 two hundred object puzzles, .50 webster's dictionaries. unabridged quarto pictorial 10.00 national pictorial 5.00 countinghouse 3.50 academic 2.20 high school 1.25 common school .95 primary .65 pocket tuck 1.00 illustration illustration right index besides giving the above as premiums, we offer them for sale, postpaid, at the prices named. transcriber's notes the january edition of the nursery had a table of contents for the first six issues of the year. this table was divided to cover each specific issue and the words "no. 1." were added to the title page. obvious punctuation errors repaired. premium section, page 7, "probl m" changed to "problem" the problem page 7, "d light" changed to "delight" she was a phantom of delight page 10, word "of" inserted into text of them on a very small page 10, the last number is missing on both series no. 1 and series no. 2. page 15, "animals" changed to "animal" which intelligent animal end of the project gutenberg ebook the nursery, january 1877, volume xxi, no. 1 updated editions will replace the previous onethe old editions will be renamed. creating the works from print editions not protected by u.s. copyright law means that no one owns a united states copyright in these works, so the foundation and you! can copy and distribute it in the united states without permission and without paying copyright royalties. special rules, set forth in the general terms of use part of this license, apply to copying and distributing project gutenberg electronic works to protect the project gutenberg concept and trademark. project gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you charge for an ebook, except by following the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use of the project gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for copies of this ebook, complying with the trademark license is very easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and research. project gutenberg ebooks may be modified and printed and given awayyou may do practically anything in the united states with ebooks not protected by u.s. copyright law. redistribution is subject to the trademark license, especially commercial redistribution. start full license the full project gutenberg license please read this before you distribute or use this work to protect the project gutenberg mission of promoting the free distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work or any other work associated in any way with the phrase project gutenberg, you agree to comply with all the terms of the full project gutenberg license available with this file or online at section 1. general terms of use and redistributing project gutenberg electronic works 1.a. by reading or using any part of this project gutenberg electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property trademarkcopyright agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy all copies of project gutenberg electronic works in your possession. if you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a project gutenberg electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.e.8. 1.b. project gutenberg is a registered trademark. it may only be used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. there are a few things that you can do with most project gutenberg electronic works even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. see paragraph 1.c below. there are a lot of things you can do with project gutenberg electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement and help preserve free future access to project gutenberg electronic works. see paragraph 1.e below. 1.c. the project gutenberg literary archive foundation the foundation or pglaf, owns a compilation copyright in the collection of project gutenberg electronic works. nearly all the individual works in the collection are in the public domain in the united states. if an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the united states and you are located in the united states, we do not claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as all references to project gutenberg are removed. of course, we hope that you will support the project gutenberg mission of promoting free access to electronic works by freely sharing project gutenberg works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the project gutenberg name associated with the work. you can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the same format with its attached full project gutenberg license when you share it without charge with others. 1.d. the copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern what you can do with this work. copyright laws in most countries are in a constant state of change. if you are outside the united states, check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any other project gutenberg work. the foundation makes no representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any country other than the united states. 1.e. unless you have removed all references to project gutenberg 1.e.1. the following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate access to, the full project gutenberg license must appear prominently whenever any copy of a project gutenberg work any work on which the phrase project gutenberg appears, or with which the phrase project gutenberg is associated is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed, copied or distributed this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the united states and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or reuse it under the terms of the project gutenberg license included with this ebook or online at if you are not located in the united states, you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook. 1.e.2. if an individual project gutenberg electronic work is derived from texts not protected by u.s. copyright law does not contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the copyright holder, the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in the united states without paying any fees or charges. if you are redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase project gutenberg associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.e.1 through 1.e.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the project gutenberg trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.e.8 or 1.e.9. 1.e.3. if an individual project gutenberg electronic work is posted with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution must comply with both paragraphs 1.e.1 through 1.e.7 and any additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. additional terms will be linked to the project gutenberg license for all works posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work. 1.e.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full project gutenberg license terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this work or any other work associated with project gutenberg. 1.e.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.e.1 with active links or immediate access to the full terms of the project gutenberg license. 1.e.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary, compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access to or distribute copies of a project gutenberg work in a format other than plain vanilla ascii or other format used in the official version posted on the official project gutenberg website you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original plain vanilla ascii or other form. any alternate format must include the full project gutenberg license as specified in paragraph 1.e.1. 1.e.7. do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying, performing, copying or distributing any project gutenberg works unless you comply with paragraph 1.e.8 or 1.e.9. 1.e.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing access to or distributing project gutenberg electronic works provided that you pay a royalty fee of 20 of the gross profits you derive from the use of project gutenberg works calculated using the method you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. the fee is owed to the owner of the project gutenberg trademark, but he has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation. royalty payments must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you prepare or are legally required to prepare your periodic tax returns. royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation at the address specified in section 4, information about donations to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation. you provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies you in writing or by email within 30 days of receipt that she does not agree to the terms of the full project gutenberg license. you must require such a user to return or destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of project gutenberg works. you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.f.3, a full refund of any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of receipt of the work. you comply with all other terms of this agreement for free distribution of project gutenberg works. 1.e.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a project gutenberg electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from the project gutenberg literary archive foundation, the manager of the project gutenberg trademark. contact the foundation as set forth in section 3 below. 1.f. 1.f.1. project gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread works not protected by u.s. copyright law in creating the project gutenberg collection. despite these efforts, project gutenberg electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain defects, such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment. 1.f.2. limited warranty, disclaimer of damages except for the right of replacement or refund described in paragraph 1.f.3, the project gutenberg literary archive foundation, the owner of the project gutenberg trademark, and any other party distributing a project gutenberg electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal fees. you agree that you have no remedies for negligence, strict liability, breach of warranty or breach of contract except those provided in paragraph 1.f.3. you agree that the foundation, the trademark owner, and any distributor under this agreement will not be liable to you for actual, direct, indirect, consequential, punitive or incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of such damage. 1.f.3. limited right of replacement or refund if you discover a defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can receive a refund of the money if any you paid for it by sending a written explanation to the person you received the work from. if you received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with your written explanation. the person or entity that provided you with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a refund. if you received the work electronically, the person or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further opportunities to fix the problem. 1.f.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth in paragraph 1.f.3, this work is provided to you asis, with no other warranties of any kind, express or implied, including but not limited to warranties of merchantability or fitness for any purpose. 1.f.5. some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by the applicable state law. the invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions. 1.f.6. indemnity you agree to indemnify and hold the foundation, the trademark owner, any agent or employee of the foundation, anyone providing copies of project gutenberg electronic works in accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production, promotion and distribution of project gutenberg electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do or cause to occur a distribution of this or any project gutenberg work, b alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any project gutenberg work, and c any defect you cause. section 2. information about the mission of project gutenberg project gutenberg is synonymous with the free distribution of electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers including obsolete, old, middleaged and new computers. it exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from people in all walks of life. volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the assistance they need are critical to reaching project gutenbergs goals and ensuring that the project gutenberg collection will remain freely available for generations to come. in 2001, the project gutenberg literary archive foundation was created to provide a secure and permanent future for project gutenberg and future generations. to learn more about the project gutenberg literary archive foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see sections 3 and 4 and the foundation information page at section 3. information about the project gutenberg literary archive foundation the project gutenberg literary archive foundation is a nonprofit 501c3 educational corporation organized under the laws of the state of mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the internal revenue service. the foundations ein or federal tax identification number is 646221541. contributions to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by u.s. federal laws and your states laws. the foundations business office is located at 809 north 1500 west, salt lake city, ut 84116, 801 5961887. email contact links and up to date contact information can be found at the foundations website and official page at section 4. information about donations to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation project gutenberg depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be freely distributed in machinereadable form accessible by the widest array of equipment including outdated equipment. many small donations 1 to 5,000 are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt status with the irs. the foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the united states. compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up with these requirements. we do not solicit donations in locations where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. to send donations or determine the status of compliance for any particular state visit while we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who approach us with offers to donate. international donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from outside the united states. u.s. laws alone swamp our small staff. please check the project gutenberg web pages for current donation methods and addresses. donations are accepted in a number of other ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. to donate, please visit section 5. general information about project gutenberg electronic works professor michael s. hart was the originator of the project gutenberg concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared with anyone. for forty years, he produced and distributed project gutenberg ebooks with only a loose network of volunteer support. project gutenberg ebooks are often created from several printed editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in the u.s. unless a copyright notice is included. thus, we do not necessarily keep ebooks in compliance with any particular paper edition. most people start at our website which has the main pg search facility this website includes information about project gutenberg, including how to make donations to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation, how to help produce our new ebooks, and how to subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new ebooks.