 the botanical magazine, vol. 09 produced by jason isbell and the online distributed proofreading team at the botanical magazine or, flowergarden displayed in which the most ornamental foreign plants, cultivated in the open ground, the greenhouse, and the stove, are accurately represented in their natural colours. to which are added, their names, class, order, generic and specific characters, according to the celebrated linnus their places of growth, and times of flowering together with the most approved methods of culture. a work intended for the use of such ladies, gentlemen, and gardeners, as wish to become scientifically acquainted with the plants they cultivate. by william curtis, author of the flora londinensis. vol. ix. "but softer tasks divide florella's hours "to watch the buds just op'ning on the day "with welcome shade to screen the languid flowers, "that sicken in the summer's parching ray. "oft will she stoop amidst her evening walk, "with tender hand each bruised plant to rear "to bind the drooping lily's broken stalk, "and nurse the blossoms of the infant year." mrs. barbauld. london printed by stephen couchman, for w. curtis, no 3, st. george's crescent, blackfriarsroad and sold by the principal booksellers in greatbritain and ireland. m dcc xcv. 289 convolvulus linearis. narrowleaved convolvulus. class and order. pentandria monogynia. generic character. corolla campanulata, plicata. stigmata 2. caps. 2locularis loculis dispermis. specific character. convolvulus linearis caulibus erectis fruticosis, foliis linearibus acutis pilososericeis, floribus terminalibus umbellatopaniculatis, calycibus pilosis. illustration no. 289 the plant here represented has long been cultivated as a greenhouse plant in this country under the name of convolvulus cantabrica, but it differs so essentially from that plant, as figured and described by prof. jacquin in his flora austr. and accords so little with the other species described by linnus, that we have been induced to regard it as a perfectly distinct species in most points it agrees with convolvulus cneorum, but differs in having leaves much narrower, more pointed, and less silky. it strikes most readily from cuttings, is a hardy greenhouse plant, and flowers during most of the summer, qualities which many of the modern and more shewy greenhouse plants cannot boast. the precise time of its introduction here, together with its particular place of growth, we have not as yet been able satisfactorily to ascertain. 290 amaryllis lutea. yellow amaryllis. class and order. hexandria monogynia. generic character. corolla hexapetaloidea, irregularis. filamenta fauci tubi inserta, declinata, inqualia proportione vel directione. linn. fil. specific character and synonyms. amaryllis lutea spatha indivisa obtusa, flore sessili, corolla campanulata erecta basi breve tubulosa, staminibus erectis, alternis brevioribus. linn. fil. ait. kew. v. 21. p. 415. colchicum luteum majus. bauh. pin. p. 69. narcissus autumnalis major. the greater autumne or winter daffodill. park. parad. p. 77. 75. f. 7. illustration no. 290 the amaryllis lutea is a hardy perennial bulbous plant, a native of spain, and other of the more southern parts of europe, and was cultivated in our gardens in the time of gerard, and parkinson. flora, who commences her revolutionary reign, by enlivening the flower border with the spring crocus, and its numerous varieties, terminates it with flowers equally pleasing, and of similar hues thus we have the present plant, the saffron crocus, and the colchicum, flowering nearly at the same time, from the end of september, through october, and sometimes part of november. similar as the amaryllis is to the yellow spring crocus, in the colour, and form of its flowers, it differs obviously in the number of its stamina, the breadth of its leaves, and the size and colour of its root. authors describe it as varying in size, in the breadth of its leaves, the height of its flowers, and multiplication of the corolla. the dutch florists export it under the title of yellow colchicum, following the name of some of the old writers. it succeeds best in a soil moderately moist, in which it increases considerably by offsets, and flowers to the most advantage when the roots have remained for some few years undisturbed in the same spot. 291 capparis spinosa. the caper shrub. class and order. polyandria monogynia. generic character. cal. 4phyllus, coriaceus. petala 4. stamina longa. bacca corticosa, unilocularis, pedunculata. specific character and synonyms. capparis spinosa pedunculis unifloris solitariis, stipulis spinosis, foliis annuis, capsulis ovalibus. linn. syst. vegetab. ed. 14. murr. p. 487. ait. kew. v. 2. p. 221. capparis spinosa fructu minore, folio rotundo. bauh. pin. p. 480. illustration no. 291 we are happy in having it in our power to lay before our readers a representation of the caper shrub, whose blossoms are rarely seen in this country, though its flowerbuds are in very general use as a pickle indeed, so great is their consumption, that they form a very considerable article of commerce. the plant grows spontaneously in the more southern parts of europe, especially in italy and the levant in its wild state it forms a shrub of low growth, having numerous, spreading, spinous branches, somewhat thickly beset with smooth roundish leaves the blossoms grow alternately on the branches, and when the plant begins to flower, one opens generally every other morning, but so delicate are its parts, that on a hot summer's day it fades before noon the petals are white the filaments, which are extremely numerous, are white below, and of a rich purple above in these the beauty of the flower chiefly consists, as in the pistillum or pointal does its great singularity at first view, one would be led to conclude, that the part so conspicuous in the centre of the flower was the style terminated by the stigma in the usual way but if we trace this part of the flower to a more advanced state, we shall perceive, that what we took for the style, was merely an elongation of the flowerstalk, and what we took for the stigma, was in reality the germen placed on it, crowned with a minute stigma, without any intervening style this germen swells, turns downward, and ultimately becomes the seedvessel, rarely ripening in this country. miller observes, that these plants are with difficulty preserved in england, for they delight to grow in crevices of rocks, and the joints of old walls and ruins, and always thrive best in an horizontal position so that when they are planted either in pots or the full ground, they rarely thrive, though they may be kept alive for many years. it flowers in may and june, and is usually raised from seeds. mr. aiton regards it as a greenhouse plant, and informs us that it was cultivated by gerard in 1596. 292 passerina grandiflora. greatflowered passerina. class and order. octandria monogynia. generic character. cal. 0. cor. 4fida. stamina tubo imposita. sem. 1. corticatum. specific character and synonyms. passerina grandiflora glaberrima, foliis oblongis acutis concavis extrinsecus rugosis, floribus terminalibus sessilibus solitariis. linn. suppl. pl. p. 226. illustration no. 292 the passerina here figured, distinguished from all the other known species by the largeness of its flowers, is described in the suppl. pl. of the younger linnus, but not enumerated in the hortus kewensis of mr. aiton it is indeed a plant recently introduced to this country from the cape we saw it last summer in great perfection, at messrs. lee and kennedy's, hammersmith it forms a small neat shrub, somewhat like the phylica ericoides, is a hardy greenhouse plant, flowering in may and june, and increased without difficulty from cuttings. 293 catananche crulea. blue catananche. class and order. syngenesia polygamia qualis. generic character. recept. paleaceum. cal. imbricatus. pappus aristatus, caliculo 5 seto. specific character and synonyms. catananche crulea squamis calicis inferioribus ovatis. linn. syst. vegetab. ed. 14. murr. p. 722. ait. kew. v. 3. p. 134. chondrilla crulea cyani capitulo. bauh. pin. 130. illustration no. 293 the catananche crulea is a native of the south of france, where it grows in hilly situations that are stony it is a perennial herbaceous plant, moderately hardy, and has long been cultivated in our gardens, mr. aiton says, by parkinson in 1640 miller, who treats of it in his dictionary, describes it as a pretty ornament to a garden, and one that is easily kept within bounds there is certainly much about it to excite our admiration, more especially in the structure of the calyx, and the florets the flowers, which are of a pale blue colour with a dark eye, make their appearance from july to october. it is propagated by seeds, which miller recommends to be sown in the spring the seedlings should be transplanted in the autumn, into the borders where they are to remain it may also be increased by slips the plant requires a situation moderately dry, and is most productive of flowers and seeds when it stands long in one spot. in the 14th edit. of the systema vegetab. of prof. murray, mention is made of a variety with double flowers, which we believe has not been seen in this country. 294 amaryllis sarniensis. guernsey amaryllis. class and order. hexandria monogynia. generic character. cor. hexapetaloidea irregularis. filamenta fauci tubi inserta declinata inqualia proportione vel directione. linn. fil. ait. kew. p. 415. specific character and synonyms. amaryllis sarniensis, petalis linearibus planis, staminibus pistilloque rectiusculis corolla longioribus, stigmatibus partitis revolutis. linn. fil. ait. kew. v. 1. p. 420. thunb. jap. p. 131. lilium sarniense. dougl. monogr. t. 1, 2. narcissus japonicus rutilo flore. corn. canad. kmpf. amn. p. 872. illustration no. 294 the guernsey lily, as it is most commonly called, is originally a native of japan where it is described to grow by kmpfer and thunberg, who visited that island, the latter says on the hills about nagasaki, from thence roots are said to have been introduced to the garden of johannes morinus at paris, in which it flowered, october 1634 its introduction to this country, which was subsequent to that date, as dr. douglass relates in his monographia on this plant, "happened by a very singular melancholy accident, of which dr. morison, who no doubt had it from some persons then residing in guernsey, gives us the following account a dutch or english ship, it is uncertain which, coming from japan, with some of the roots of this flower on board, was cast away on the island of guernsey the roots were thrown upon a sandy shore, and so by the force of the winds and waves, were soon buried in sand there they remained for some years, and afterwards, to the great surprise and admiration of the inhabitants, the flowers appeared in all their pomp and beauty." some of these soon made their appearance in this country mr. aiton relates, that the plant was cultivated here in 1659, by general lambert, at wimbledon. fatal as guernsey proved to the unfortunate mariners, it afforded the roots of our plant a soil and situation apparently congenial to their own in that island they have flourished ever since, there they are propagated in the open borders of the flowergarden with the least possible trouble, flowering most readily, but we believe never producing any ripe seeds from thence most of the roots which flower with the curious here, are yearly imported in the autumn. in guernsey, the cold of the winter is far less intense than with us many of those plants which we keep in our greenhouses, stand with them in the open ground the superior mildness of the climate enables them to cultivate this plant with more success than we can do, even perhaps with all the expence and trouble to which we might subject ourselves to such, however, whose situations may be favourable, and who may be fond of making experiments, we recommend the perusal of fairchild's directions, a practical gardener of great ingenuity, and who appears to have had much experience in the culture of this planta. it is usual to plant the imported bulbs in pots of sand, or light loam, as soon as they arrive, and place them in the parlour window, or greenhouse they blossom in september and october the flowers, which continue about a month in perfection, are inodorous, but make up for that deficiency by the superior splendour of their colours dr. douglass thus describes them, each flower when in its prime looks like a fine gold tissue wrought on a rosecoloured ground, but when it begins to fade and decay, it looks more like a silver tissue, or what they call a pink colour when we look upon the flower in full sunshine, each leaf appears to be studded with thousands of little diamonds, sparkling and glittering with a most surprising and agreeable lustre but if we view the same by candlelight, these numerous specks or spangles look more like fine gold dust. both kmpfer and thunberg agree, that the japanese regard the root as poisonous. footnote a "they love a light earth, made with dung and sand, and a little lime rubbish with it does very well, it keeps the roots sound for if the earth be too stiff or wet, you may keep them for many years before they blow. if they are in pots, they should be put in the house in winter, to keep them from the severe frosts, which are apt to rot the roots. the time of moving them is when they have no leaves on the root, that is from june to august those that come with six leaves this year, seldom fail blowing the next year they need not be put in fresh earth above once in two or three years by this method of management i have had the same roots blow again in four years time. the many miscarriages that happen to the guernsey lily, are by letting the leaves be killed by the fierceness of the frost in winter, or by cutting them off, as some people do, when they are green, which will so much weaken the plants, that they may keep them twenty years and not have them blow by the above management, where there is a stock, there will be continually some blowing. "miller recommends for these roots the following compost take a thirdpart of fresh virgin earth from a pastureground which is light, then put near an equal part of seasand, to which you should add rotten dung and sifted lime rubbish, of each an equal quantity." the great business in the culture of this flower, next to a proper soil and situation, seems to consist in giving the plant as much air as possible, and in preserving the foliage in the winter from the injury of frost. 295 agrostemma coeli rosa. smoothleav'd cockle, or rose campion. class and order. decandria pentagynia. generic character. cal. 1phyllus, coriaceus. petala 5 unguiculata limbo obtuso indiviso. caps. 1 locularis. specific character and synonyms. agrostemma coeli rosa glabra, foliis linearilanceolatis, petalis emarginatis coronatis. linn. syst. vegetab. ed. 14. p. 435. ait. kew. v. 2. p. 116. lychnis segetum, nigellastrum minus glabrum dicta, flore eleganter rubello. moris. hist. 2. p. 543. s. 5. t. 22. f. 32. lychnis pseudomelanthiis similis africana glabra angustifolia. herm. leyd. 391. t. 393. illustration no. 295 mr. aiton informs us in his hortus kewensis, that the charming annual here figured, the liveliness of whose colours no paint can express, was cultivated by miller in 1739 seeing it is a plant of such beauty, and honoured with so distinguished an appellation, it is singular that it should not by this time have made its way more generally into our gardens. the cockle of our cornfields is an ornamental plant, the present species resembles it but while the plant itself is much smaller, its flowers are proportionably larger, and their colours more vivid. it is an annual of ready growth, a native of sicily and the levant, flowering in july and august, and ripening its seeds in september and october. it appears to most advantage when several plants of it grow together the best mode, therefore, is to sow about a dozen seeds early in april on the several spots of the flowerborder where you intend they shall remain no other care is necessary than to keep the plants free from weeds and vermin. the agr. coeli rosa of miller's gard. dict. ed. 6 4to. is the coronaria. 296 sempervivum tortuosum. gouty houseleek. class and order. dodecandria dodecagynia. generic character. cal. 12partitus. petala 12. capsul 12 polysperm. specific character. sempervivum tortuosum foliis obovatis subtus gibbis villosis, nectariis bilobis. ait. kew. v. 2. p. 148. illustration no. 296 we know of no figure of this plant, the first and only account of which is to be found in the hort. kew. of mr. aiton there it is specifically described, and from thence we discover that it was introduced from the canary islands, where it is a native, by mr. masson, in 1779. it is a shrubby plant of low growth, producing numerous fleshy leaves growing thickly together, which being evergreen, and making a pretty appearance the year through, render the plant worthy a place in all general collections at least, of greenhouse plants and though it cannot vie with many of the more shewy highpriced novelties, it is an abiding plant, not subject to casualties, while many of those are here to day and gone to morrow. it throws up its flowering stems, supporting numerous, starry, stonecroplike flowers, in july and august, and is most readily propagated by cuttings. it is one of those species of houseleek which connect the genera sedum sempervivum. 297 dianthus superbus. superb pink. class and order. decandria digynia. generic character. cal. cylindricus, 1phyllus basi squamis 4. petala 5 unguiculata. caps. cylindrica, 1locularis. specific character and synonyms. dianthus superbus floribus paniculatis squamis calycinis brevibus acuminatis, corollis multifidocapillaribus, caule erecto. linn. syst. vegetab. ed. 14. murr. p. 418. caryophyllus simplex alter, flore laciniato odoratissimo. bauh. pin. 210. caryophyllus plumarius austriacus sive superba austriaca. the feathered pinke of austria. park. parad. p. 316. 4. illustration no. 297 many of the plants of this genus diffuse an agreeable odour, which renders them most desirable objects for the flowergarden this quality the present species possesses in a superior degree to most others a few of its flowers communicate to a nosegay a delicate and most delicious smell, or placed in a vial of water they will even scent a small apartmentb it is to be regretted, however, that the blossoms, unless placed in water, from their extreme delicacy, flag soon after they are gathered. it may be doubted whether the dianthus superbus of miller's dict. ed. 6. 4to. be our plant if it be, the description is not drawn up with that accuracy which distinguishes his descriptions in general the mode of culture, however, which he recommends is strictly applicable to it, as the plant rarely continues in vigour more than two years, and as it is in its greatest beauty the first year of its flowering, he recommends that young plants should be annually raised for succession from seeds, which are plentifully produced the seeds of this plant ought therefore to be kept in the shops with annuals and biennials. the dianthus superbus is a native of germany, switzerland, france, and denmark clusius found it growing in the moist meadows about vienna, and on the borders of woods adjoining to such, with some of its flowers white, others purplish parkinson describes them of these two colours, but says the most ordinary with us are pure white, which is contrary to what we now find them they are rarely produced before august, from which period they will continue frequently to blossom till october. the spring is the best time for sowing its seeds the plants require no very nice or particular treatment. footnote b this fragrance has been noticed by all the old authors who have treated of the plant clusius describes the flowers as suavissimi odoris et longinquo nares ferientis, of which words parkinson's are almost a literal translation "of a most fragrant sent, comforting the spirits and senses afarre off." 298 origanum dictamnus. dittany of crete. class and order. didynamia gymnospermia. generic character. strobilus tetragonus, spicatus, calyces colligens. specific character and synonyms. origanum dictamnus foliis inferioribus tomentosis, spicis nutantibus. linn. syst. vegetab. ed. 14. murr. p. 541. ait. kew. v. 2 p. 311. dittany of candia. dictamnus creticus. bauh. pin. p. 222. illustration no. 298 by the name of dittany of crete, the species of origanum here figured, has long been known in this country as a medicinal plant to the purposes of physic it still indeed continues to be applied, as imported in a dried state from the levant when bruised, the whole plant gives forth an aromatic fragrance, highly grateful as an ornamental plant, it has also been long, and is now, very generally cultivated in this country. turner, whose herbal was printed in 1568, writes thus concerning it, "i have sene it growynge in england in maister riches gardin naturally, but it groweth no where ellis that i know of, saving only in candy." as at this period no idea was entertained of a greenhouse, the plant must have been cultivated in the open ground, where it would doubtless grow readily, if secured from the severity of the weather, it being more hardy than many plants usually kept in greenhouses. this plant is at all times ornamental, but more particularly so when in flower, in which state it appears during most of the summer and autumnal months. it is usually increased by cuttings, which strike readily. 299 hermannia alnifolia. alderleaved hermannia. class and order. monadelphia pentandria. generic character. pentagyna. caps. 5locularis. petala basi semitubulata, obliqua. specific character and synonyms. hermannia alnifolia foliis cuneiformibus lineatis plicatis crenatoemarginatis. linn. syst. vegetab. ed. 14. murr. p. 610. ait. kew. v. 2. p. 412. arbuscula africana tricapsularis ononidis vern singulari folio. pluk. mant. 14. t. 239. f. 1. illustration no. 299 hermannia is a genus of plants named in honour of dr. paul herman, a dutch botanist of great celebrity, author of the paradisus batavus, and other valuable works twentysix species are enumerated in the 13th edition of the syst. natur of linnus by prof. gmelin, and eight in the hortus kewensis of mr. aiton most of those in the latter work are cultivated in the nurseries near town they form a set of the more hardy greenhouse plants, grow readily, and flower freely their blossoms are for the most part yellow, and have a considerable affinity with those of the mahernia. the present species flowers very early in the spring, from february to may, producing a great profusion of bloom during that period is a native of the cape, and was cultivated by mr. miller, in 1728. it rarely ripens its seeds with us, but is readily increased by cuttings. the nurserymen near town regard this plant as the grossularifolia of linnus, calling another, equally common species, with longer and narrower leaves, alnifolia, and which does not appear to be described by linnus or mentioned by mr. aiton our plant accords exactly with the linnan description of alnifolia, and there is we think no doubt of its being the alnifolia of the hortus kewensis, and mr. miller's dictionary. 300 gnaphalium eximium. giant cudweed. class and order. syngenesia polygamia superflua. generic character. recept. nudum. pappus plumosus vel capillaris. cal. imbricatus, squamis marginalibus rotundatis, scariosis, coloratis. specific character and synonyms. gnaphalium eximium foliis sessilibus ovatis confertis erectis tomentosis, corymbo sessili. linn. mant. pl. p. 573. syst. nat. ed. 13. gmel. elychrysum africanum foliis lanceolatis integris tomentosis decurrentibus, capitulus congestis ex rubello aureis. edw. av. t. 183. illustration no. 300 in the summer of 1794, towards the end of july, the gnaphalium here figured, the most magnificent and shewy of all the species hitherto introduced to this country, flowered in great perfection at messrs. lee and kennedy's, hammersmith mr. lee informs me, that he raised it from seeds given him by capt. william paterson, author of a narrative of four journeys into the country of the hottentots, and caffraria, and who has most laudably exerted himself in introducing many new and interesting plants to this country this gentleman assured mr. lee, that the plant was found in a wild state, five hundred miles from the cape, on the borders of the caffre country, from whence the natives bring bundles of the dried plant to the cape as presents in the state the plant has long since been imported from that fertile coast if we mistake not, a specimen of this sort is figured in petiver's works, and a coloured representation is given of it in edwards's history of birds, taken from a dried plant, brought from the cape, by capt. isaac worth, in 1749. the plants we saw were about a foot and a half high, the stalks shrubby, and but little branched the foliage and flowers as represented on the plate. several of the gnaphaliums it is well known are liable to be killed by moisture, especially in the winter season during that time, this plant in particular, should be kept as dry as possible, and, if convenient, on a shelf, separate from the other plants of the greenhouse when it is necessary to give it water, it should never come in contact with the foliage or flowers with these precautions it may be kept very well in a good greenhouse, in which it should remain, even during summer. it may be raised from seeds, and also from cuttings. 301 melianthus minor. small melianthus, or honeyflower. class and order. didynamia angiospermia. generic character. cal. 5phyllus folio inferiore gibbo. petala 4 nectario infra infima. caps. 4locularis. specific character and synonyms. melianthus minor stipulis geminis distinctis. linn. syst. vegetab. ed. 14. murr. p. 581. ait. kew. v. 2. p. 368. melianthus africanus minor foetidus. comm. rar. 4. t. 4. illustration no. 301 there are few flowers that do not secrete from some kind of a glandular substance, honey, or nectar, to a greater or smaller amount in those of the present genus, this liquid is particularly abundant, even dropping from the flowers of the major, in considerable quantity in the present species it flows not so copiously, but is retained in the lower part of the blossom, and is of a dark brown colour, an unusual phenomenon. there are only two species of this genus described, the major and the minor, both of which are cultivated in our nurseries the major is by far the most common, the most hardy, and the most ornamental plant its foliage indeed is peculiarly elegant this species will succeed in the open border, especially if placed at the foot of a wall with a south or southwest aspect, taking care to cover the root to a considerable depth with rotten tan in severe frosts the minor is always kept in the greenhouse, in which, when it has acquired a certain age, it flowers regularly in the spring, and constantly so, as far as we have observed of the plants in chelsea garden mr. aiton says in august, and commelin the summer through. the melianthus minor grows to the height of three, four, or five feet its stem, which is shrubby, during the flowering season is apt to exhibit a naked appearance, having fewer leaves on it at that period, and those not of their full size but this, perhaps, may in some degree be owing to the plant's being placed at the back of others. the foliage when bruised has an unpleasant smell. it is a native of the cape, and, according to mr. aiton, was cultivated by the duchess of beaufort, in 1708 is propagated readily by cuttings. 302 mimosa myrtifolia. myrtleleaved mimosa. class and order. polyandria monogynia. generic character. flores mere masculi reliquis intersiti. cal. 5dentatus. cor. 5fida aut 0. stamina 4locularis. legumen. linn. syst. nat. ed. 13. gmel. specific character. mimosa myrtifolia foliis ovatolanceolatis obliquis undulatis acuminatis margine cartilagineis primordialibus pinnatis. smith trans. linn. soc. v. 1. p. 252. illustration no. 302 the seeds of this species of mimosa having been sent over in plenty, with some of the first vegetable productions of new southwales, and growing readily, the plant has been raised by many cultivators in this country mr. hoy, gardener to the duke of northumberland, produced a specimen of it in flower at a meeting of the linnean society in 1790 it is a shrub of quick growth, and a ready blower a plant of it in the stove of chelseagarden has this year may 10, 1795 produced ripe pods, and perfect seeds. in the greenhouse, where it flowers from february to april, the blossoms go off without shewing any tendency to produce fruit. it is first described by dr. smith, in the transactions of the linnean society the leaves in the plants that have fallen under our notice have not accorded exactly with those he has described, having neither been of a glaucous green colour, according to the usual acceptation of that term, nor very much undulated and though those of an individual plant may have presented such an appearance, we are persuaded they do not do so generally when growing and in good health. the foliage is usually edged with red, and the flowers are fragrant. 303 erica ampullacea. flask heath. class and order. octandria monogynia. generic character. cal. 4phyllus. cor. 4fida. filamenta receptaculo inserta. anther apice bifid, pertus. caps. 4locularis, 4valvis, polysperma. specific character and synonyms. erica ampullacea foliis ciliatis mucronatis, bractis coloratis, floribus umbellatis subquaternis erectopatentibus, stylo exserto. illustration no. 303 the erica here figured has some affinity in the form of its flowers to the e. ventricosa, as these in their shape resemble a flask or bottle, especially of that kind in which water is usually kept, we have named it ampullacea it is of very modern introduction. on the 11th of june 1784, we had the pleasure to see a small plant of this species in flower, with mr. williams, nurseryman, turnhamgreen, an unwearied and ingenious cultivator of this beautiful tribe of plants in particular, the richness of whose collection will appear in the subsequent list by him it was raised from cape seeds, though not more than the height of ten inches, it produced eighteen branches, most of which put forth flowers at their summits we counted sixtysix blossoms on this small plant. the leaves are short, linear, somewhat triangular, rigid, edged with fine crooked hairs, very visible when magnified, and terminating in a mucro or point, on the older branches recurved and mostly eightrowed each branch is usually terminated by four or five flowers, at first growing closely together, and covered so strongly with a glutinous substance, as to look as if varnished, and which is so adhesive as to catch ants and small flies as the flowering advances, they separate more widely from each other, and finally a young branch grows out of the centre from betwixt them the true calyx is composed of four lanceolate leaves, sitting close to and glued as it were to the corolla besides these, there are several other leaves, which might be mistaken for those of the calyx, but which may with more propriety be called bracte or floralleaves some of these, like the calyx, are wholly red, others red and green mixed together, and broader than the leaves of the plant the flowers are about an inch and a quarter in length, inflated below, and contracted above into a long narrow neck, dilating again so as to form a kind of knob, in which the anther are contained, just below the limb, which divides into four somewhat ovate obtuse segments, the upper side of these segments is of a very pale flesh colour, the under side of them as well as the dilated part just below them bright red, the body of the flower flesh colour, marked with eight longitudinal stripes, of a deeper hue filaments eight, anther within the tube style projecting about the eighth of an inch beyond the corolla stigma, a round glutinous head. the flowers as they decay become of a deeper red colour, and finally pale brown, still retaining their form and appearing to advantagehitherto the plant has produced no seeds here, is increased with difficulty either by cuttings or layers, but with most certainty in the latter way. a catalogue of heaths, cultivated and sold by richard williams, at his nursery, turnhamgreen, middlesex. erica. abietina. albens. ampullacea. arborea. var. squarrosa. articularis. australis. baccans. banksii. canescens. capitata. caffra. cernua. cerinthoides. cinerea. var. fl. albo. ciliaris. coccinea. comosa. var. fl. rubro. conspicua. corifolia. cruenta. cubica. curviflora. denticulata. discolor. elata. empetrifolia. fascicularis. formosa. fucata. grandiflora. halicacaba. herbacea. incarnata. incana. lateralis. lutea. mammosa. var. fl. purp. margaritacea. var. fl. rubro. marifolia. mediterranea. massoni. minima. monadelphia. monsoniana. mucosa. multiflora. var. fl. albo. muscari. nudiflora. parviflora. pattersoni. persoluta. var. fl. rubro. petiveri. physodes. pinifolia. planifolia. plukenetii. pubescens. pyramidalis. quadriflora. ramentacea. regerminans. scoparia. sessiliflora. simpliciflora. sparrmanni. spicata. stricta. taxifolia. tetralix. var. fl. albo. thymifolia. triflora. var. fl. albo. tubiflora. umbellata. urceolaris. vagans. ventricosa. versicolor. verticillata. vestita. virgata. vulgaris. var. fl. albo. n.b. those marked with an asterisk have tubular flowers. 304 hermannia lavendulifolia. lavenderleaved hermannia. class and order. monadelphia pentandria. generic character. pentagyna. caps. 5locularis. petala basi semitubulata, obliqua. specific character and synonyms. hermannia lavendulifolia foliis lanceolatis obtusis integerrimis. linn. syst. vegetab. ed. 14. murr. p. 611. ait. kew. v. 2. p. 413. hermannia frutescens folio lavendul latiore et obtuso flore parvo aureo boerh. dill. hort. elth. t. 147. illustration no. 304 the hermannia here figured is a plant of humble growth, forming a small bushy shrub, a foot or a foot and a half in height, and producing numerous flowers thinly scattered over the branches, the greatest part of the summer it is this disposition which it has of flowering so freely, that renders it a desirable plant for the greenhouse, in which it is commonly kept, and of which it is an old inhabitant. dillenius has figured it in his admirable work the hortus elthamensis, published in 1732 hence we learn that it was cultivated in mr. sherard's celebrated garden at eltham prior to that date. it is a native of the cape, and is readily increased by cuttings. 305 amaryllis equestris. barbadoes amaryllis, or lily. class and order. hexandria monogynia. generic character. cor. hexapetaloidea, irregularis. filamenta fauci tubi inserta, declinata, inqualia proportione vel directione. linn. fil. specific character and synonyms. amaryllis equestris spatha subbiflora, pedicellis erectis spatha brevioribus, tubo siliformi horizontali, limbo oblique patulo sursum curvo, fauce, pilosa. linn. fil. ait. kew. v. 1. p. 417. amaryllis dubia linn. am. ac. 8. p. 254. lilium americanum puniceo flore belladonna dictum. herm. par. bat. p. 194. cum fig. illustration no. 305 mr. aiton, in his hortus kewensis, has inserted this species of amaryllis, as named and described by the younger linnus he informs us, that it is a native of the westindies, and was introduced by dr. william pitcairn, in 1778 as its time of flowering is not mentioned, we may presume, that it had not blossomed in the royal garden when the publication before mentioned first made its appearance it no doubt has since, as we have seen it in that state in the collections of several nurserymen, particularly those of mr. grimwood and mr. colvill. it flowers towards the end of april. the flowering stem rises above the foliage, to the height of about a foot or more, produces from one to three flowers, similar to, but not quite so large as those of the mexican amaryllis, to which it is nearly related it differs however from that plant essentially in this, that the lower part of the flower projects further than the upper, which gives to its mouth that obliquity which linnus describes. the spatha is composed of two leaves, which standing up at a certain period of the plant's flowering like ears, give to the whole flower a fancied resemblance of a horse's head whether linnus derived his name of equestris from this circumstance or not, he does not condescend to inform us. mr. aiton regards it as a greenhouse plant like those of many of the ixias, however, the bulbs are of the more tender kind. it is propagated by offsets, but not very readily. 306 othonna pectinata. wormwoodleaved othonna. class and order. syngenesia polygamia necessaria. generic character. recept. nudum. pappus subnullus, cal. 1phyllus multifidus subcylindricus. specific character and synonyms. othonna pectinata foliis pinnatifidis laciniis linearibus parallelis. linn. syst. vegetab. ed. 14. murr. p. 793. ait. kew. v. 3. p. 276. jacoba africana frutescens, foliis absinthii umbelliferi incanis. comm. hort. 2. p. 137. t. 69. illustration no. 306 the othonna pectinata is a native of africa, a longestablished and common plant in greenhouses, having been cultivated by mr. miller, in 1731 it recommends itself chiefly on account of its foliage, which forms a pleasing contrast to the darker greens of other plants. it flowers in may and june, is moderately hardy, and readily increased by cuttings. in many collections we meet with old plants of it three or four feet high formerly, when greenhouse plants were few in numbers and the houses large, it might be proper to keep such but now there is not that necessity, especially since the vast accession of plants from the cape and newholland, made within these few years. 307 hermannia althifolia. marshmallowleaved hermannia. class and order. monadelphia pentandria. generic character. pentagyna. caps. 5locularis. petala basi semitubulata, obliqua. specific character and synonyms. hermannia althifolia foliis ovatis crenatis plicatis tomentosis, calycibus florentibus campanulatis angulatis, stipulis oblongis foliaceis. ait. kew. v. 2. p. 411. hermannia althifolia foliis ovatis plicatis crenatis tomentosis. linn. syst. vegetab. ed. 14. murr. p. 610. hermannia capensis alth folio. pet. gaz. 53. t. 34. f. 2. ketmia africana frutescens foliis mollibus et incanis. comm. hort. 2. p. 151. t. 79. illustration no. 307 the hermannia althifolia, a native of the cape, is a plant of much larger growth than the lavendulifolia, rising to the height, if suffered to do so, of three, four, or more feet its blossoms are proportionably large, and of a deep yellow colour, inclined to orange. it is a plant of free growth, much disposed to produce flowers during most of the summer months hence it is kept very generally in collections of greenhouse plants is propagated readily by cuttings. was cultivated by mr. miller, in 1728. ait. kew. our readers will see, that the specific description of linnus has been altered in the hortus kewensis, and that it now comprizes all the striking features of the plant. 308 verbena aubletia. rose vervain. class and order. diandria monogynia. generic character. cor. infundibuliformis subqualis curva. calycis unico dente truncato. semina 2 s. 4 nuda stam. 2 s. 4. specific character and synonyms. verbena aubletia tetrandra, spicis laxis solitariis, foliis trifidis incisis. ait. kew. v. 1. p. 33. verbena aubletia tetrandra, spicis solitariis, coroliis fasciculatis, foliis cordatis incisoserratis. linn. syst. vegetab. ed. 14. murr. p. 66. suppl. pl. p. 86. buchnera canadensis linn. syst. vegetab. ed. 13. p. 478. verbena aubletia. jacq. hort. v. 2. p. 82. t. 176. obletia journ. de rozier introd. 1. p. 367. t. 2. illustration no. 308 it has fallen to the lot of this plant to have an unusual degree of attention bestowed on it by various botanists, and after being regarded as a distinct genus by several, to be finally classed with the verbena in the supplementum plantarum of the younger linnus it is minutely described. we learn from the hortus kewensis of mr. aiton that it is a native of northamerica, introduced by mons. richard in 1774, and that it flowers in june and july. the extreme brilliancy of its colours renders it a very ornamental greenhouse plant, it seldom grows above the height of two feet in favourable seasons ripens its seeds readily, by which it is usually propagated, being a biennial. 309 pelargonium echinatum. pricklystalked geranium. class and order. monadelphia heptandria. generic character. cal. 5partitus lacinia suprema definente in tubulum capillarem nectariferum secus pendunculum decurrentem. cor. 5 petala irregularis. filamenta 10, inqualia, quorum 3 raro 5 castrata. fructus 5 coccus, rostratus rostra spiralia, introrsum barbata. specific character. perlargonium echinatum caule carnoso, stipulis spinescentibus, foliis cordatosubrotundis 35 lobis, floribus umbellatis, umbellis subseptemfloris. illustration no. 309 this singular and most beautiful species of pelargonium, recently introduced to this country, this summer flowered with mr. colvill, nurseryman, in the king'sroad, chelsea, from one of whose plants our figure and description have been taken. stalk green, surface smooth and somewhat glossy, fleshy, beset with spines which bend back and terminate in brownish somewhat weak points these appear to have been primarily the stipul, which become thus fleshy and rigid, and from this circumstance not altogether peculiar to this species, it takes the name of echinatum the leaves stand on long footstalks, are somewhat heartshaped, mostly roundish, divided into three or five lobes, veiny, soft, and downy, especially on the under side, which is of a much lighter colour than the upper, the flowering stem proceeds from the summit of the stalk, and is a foot or more in height as it advances it throws out its branches, or peduncles, ultimately about five in number, each of which has a leaf at its base, similar to the other leaves of the plant, but smaller, and terminates in an umbel of seven or eight flowers as the umbels blossom in succession, a period of several months usually intervenes betwixt the blowing of the first and the last when the flower is expanded, the hindmost leaf of the calyx continues upright, the others are reflexed as in other species of this genus, they are all beset with fine long hairs the three lowermost petals are pure white, with a little gibbosity at the base of each, the two uppermost are marked each with three irregular spots, of a rich purple colour, inclining to carmine, the two lowermost spots narrowest and of the deepest colour of the stamina there are six filaments which have anther, and four of which have none stigma red, divided into five parts, and a little longer than the fertile filaments. in its habit this plant resembles somewhat the pelargonium cordifolium, is a native of the cape, flowers from may to september, in favourable seasons has produced seeds here, but is more usually increased by cuttings. varies with petals of a rich purple colour, in which the spots are similar, though not so conspicuous. 310 erinus alpinus. alpine erinus. class and order. didynamia angiospermia. generic character. cal. 5phyllus. cor. limbus 5fidus qualis. caps. 2locularis. specific character and synonyms. erinus alpinus floribus racemosis, foliis spathulatis. linn. syst. vegetab. ed. 14. murr. p. 570. ait. kew. v. 2. p. 357. ageratum serratum alpinum. bauh. pin. 221. illustration no. 310 the erinus alpinus is a native of switzerland, germany, and france inhabiting the more mountainous parts of those countries. it is a very desirable little plant for the decoration of rock work, growing in close tufts, and producing numerous flowers of a lively purple colour during most of the summer months. is increased without difficulty by parting its roots in autumn, or from seed in the winter some plants of it should be kept in pots under a frame or handglass, as it is liable to be injured by wet and frost. was cultivated here by mr. miller in 1759. 311 robinia hispida. roughstalk'd robinia, or rose acacia. class and order. diadelphia decandria. generic character. cal. 4fidus. legumen gibbum elongatum. specific character and synonyms. robinia hispida racemis axillaribus, foliis impari pinnatis, caule inermi hispido. linn. mant. p. 668. ait. kew. v. 3. p. 53. robinia racemis axillaribus, pedicellis unifloris, foliis impari pinnatis, caule inermi. jacq. amer. 211. t. 179. f. 101. pseudo acacia hispida floribus roseis. catesb. carol. 3. p. 20. t. 20. illustration no. 311 there are few trees or shrubs which have contributed more to adorn our plantations, and shrubberies, than those of this genus, nine species of which are enumerated in the hort. kew. of mr. aiton, most of these are natives either of northamerica, or siberia the present species, an inhabitant of carolina, is perhaps the most ornamental of the whole its large pendant bunches of rosecoloured flowers load the branches in may and june, and sometimes a second crop will be produced late in the season, these with us usually fall off without producing any seedvessels. this shrub is not disposed to grow very tall in america, it is most prudent indeed to keep it humble, to the height of four or five feet, and to plant it in a sheltered part of the garden, as its branches are liable to be broken by high winds marshall arb. amer. describes it as spreading much from its running roots we have not observed it to do so in any great degree here it is propagated by layers, by cuttings of the roots, and by grafting it is of ready growth, disposed to blow even when young, and not nice as to soil, or situation the flowers afford a good example of the class diadelphia, they are large and beautiful, but without scent. was cultivated by mr. miller in 1758. ait. kew. 312 linum flavum. yellow flax. class and order. pentandria pentagynia. generic character. cal. 5phyllus. petala 5. caps. 5valvis 10 locularis. sem. solitaria. specific character and synonyms. linum flavum calycibus subserratoscabris lanceolatis subsessilibus, panicula ramis dichotomis. linn. sp. pl. v. 1. ed. 3. p. 399. mant. p. 360. syst. vegetab. ed. 14. murr. p. 303. jacq. fl. austr. v. 3. t. 214. linum sylvestre latifolium luteum. bauh. pin. 214. linum sylvestre iii. latifolium. clus. hist. 1. p. 317. illustration no. 312 there is a considerable similarity betwixt the representation of the present plant and that of the linum arboreum figured on the 234th plate of this work, they are nevertheless two species widely differing, the flavum being a hardy herbaceous perennial, a native of germany, the arboreum a greenhouse shrub from the levant, both possessing considerable beauty, and highly worthy a place in all collections of ornamental plants. the linum flavum is not mentioned either in the dictionary of mr. miller, or the hortus kewensis of mr. aiton, and as far as our knowledge extends was a stranger in this country, till we raised it the year before last from seeds sent us by mr. daval, of orbe in switzerland clusius gives us a representation of it in flower, and prof. jacquin another much superior according to the latter, it grows by the sides of hedges and among shrubs in mountainous situations, and rarely exceeds a foot in height. from the little experience we have had of this plant, it appears to be easy of culture, and to succeed best in a soil moderately stiff and moist the flowers expand most in a morning when the sun shines, and continue in succession during june, july, and part of august it appears as if it would ripen its seeds in my garden these vegetate freely the plant may also be increased by parting its roots in autumn, or by cuttings of the young shoots. 313 daphne cneorum. trailing daphne. class and order. octandria monogynia. generic character. cal. 0. cor. 4fida corallacea marcescens stamina includens, bacca 1sperma. specific character and synonyms. daphne cneorum floribus congestis terminalibus sessilibus, foliis lanceolatis nudis mucronatis. linn. syst. veget. ed. 14. murr. p. 371. ait. kew. v. 2. p. 26. thymele affinis facie externa. bauh. pin. 463. cneorum. matth. hist. 46. clus. hist. 89, 90. f. 1. illustration no. 313 this charming little shrub is a native of switzerland and austria clusius informs us that it grows in great abundance on many of the mountains near vienna, so much so that women gather it when in flower and sell it in the markets its beautiful and fragrant blossoms come forth in april and may, the principal season for its flowering, but it frequently blows during most of the summer, and even in the autumn it varies with white blossoms. it is extremely hardy, thrives remarkably well in road sand in almost any situation is propagated by seeds, which very rarely ripen with us, by layers, and by grafting it on the stock of the mezereon, whereby it acquires an elevation superior to what it has naturally. 314 genista triquetra. triangularstalk'd genista. class and order. diadelphia decandria. generic character. cal. 2labiatus 23. vexillum oblongum a pistillo staminibusque deorsum reflexum. specific character. genista triquetra foliis ternatis, summis simplicibus, ramis triquetris procumbentibus. l'herit. stirp. nov. t. 88. ait. kew. v. 3. p. 14. illustration no. 314 mons. l'heritier, author of many modern publications in botany, distinguished for their accuracy and elegance, was the first who described and figured this species of genista, a native of corsica, and cultivated here by john ord, esq. as long since as the year 1770. it is a hardy, evergreen, trailing shrub, producing a vast profusion of bloom which renders it eminently conspicuous in may and june its flowers are rarely succeeded by seedvessels, so that it is usually propagated by layers. when tied up properly, and carefully trained to stake, it may vie with most of our ornamental shrubs for covering a wall, or paling, where the situation is not too shady, it probably would succeed very well, at least it is deserving of trial. 315 pelargonium ceratophyllum. hornleaved crane's bill. class and order. monadelphia heptandria. generic character. cal. 5partitus lacinia suprema definente in tubulum capillarem, nectariferum, secus pendunculum decurrentem. cor. 5petala, irregularis. filam. 10 inqualia, quorum 3 raro 5 castrata. fructus 5coccus, rostratus, rostra spiralia introrsum barbata. specific character and synonyms. pelargonium ceratophyllum umbellis multifloris, foliis remote pinnatis carnosis teretibus, laciniis canaliculatis obsolete trifidis. l'herit. geran. n. 50. t. 13. ait. kew. v. 2 p. 422. illustration no. 315 mr. aiton informs us that this species of pelargonium, which is one of the more fleshy kinds, is a native of the southwest coast of africa, and was introduced to the royal garden at kew by mr. anthony hove in 1786. it flowers during most of the summer months, and ripens its seeds, by which it may be increased, as also by cuttings it is found to be more tender than many others, and more liable to be injured by damps, and hence it will require a treatment more applicable to a dry stove plant. 316 polygala chambuxus. boxleaved milkwort. class and order. diadelphia octandria. generic character. cal. 5phyllus foliolis 2 majoribus alformibus, ante maturitatem seminis coloratis. caps. obcordata, 2locularis. sem. solitaria. specific character and synonyms. polygala chambuxus floribus sparsis carin apice subrotundo, foliis lanceolatis. linn. syst. vegetab. ed. 14. murr. p. 639. ait. kew. v. 3. p. 4. jacq. fl. austr. v. 3. p. 19. t. 233. chambuxus flore colute. bauh. pin. 471. anonymos flore colute. clus. hist. p. 105. f. polygaloides procumbens foliis duris ovatis nervo aristato. hall. hist. n. 345. illustration no. 316 clusius, in his hist. pl. rar. gives an accurate description and good figure of the present plant, before unnoticed as he observes by any author it has since been particularly described by haller and jacquin the former makes a distinct genus of it, by the name of polygaloides. it is an elegant little evergreen shrub of low growth, rarely exceeding a foot in height, with leaves like those of box, producing flowers from may to october, but most plentifully in may and june each flower stands on a peduncle proceeding from a kind of triphyllous cup, formed of floral leaves, the true calyx is composed of three leaves, which are nearly white the two outermost petals, similar to the wings of a papilionaceous flower, are also white, or nearly so the third petal which forms a kind of tube and contains the eight stamina with the pistillum, is white at the base, but yellow towards the extremity, where it changes by degrees to a bright bay colour both clusius and jacquin observed a variety of this plant, in which the calyx and wings were of a beautiful purple this variety, we believe, has not yet been introduced to this country the common sort was cultivated in the garden at oxford, in 1658. miller describes it as a plant difficult of cultivation it is not now regarded as such both clusius and jacquin describe it as having creeping roots such plants are generally increased without difficulty, and so is this planted in bog earth on a shady border, it thrives extremely well, and spawns much, so that there is no necessity for having recourse to its seeds. it grows spontaneously on the alps of austria and switzerland. 317 ononis fruticosa. shrubby restharrow. class and order. diadelphia decandria. generic character. cal. 5partitus laciniis linearibus. vexillum striatum. legumen turgidum sessile. filamenta connata absque fissura. specific character and synonyms. ononis fruticosa foliis sessilibus ternatis lanceolatis serratis, stipulis vaginalibus, pedunculis subtrifloris. linn. syst. vegetab. ed. 14. murr. p. 653. ait. kew. 24. ononis purpurea verna prcox frutescens, flore rubro amplo. moris. hist. 2. p. 170. illustration no. 317 this charming little shrub, highly deserving of being more generally known, is a native of the south of france and was cultivated here by miller in 1748. in favourable situations, it produces blossoms in great profusion during most of the summer, and ripens seed in abundance the situation it affects is dry and sandy, but it is a shrub by no means nice, as to soil or place of growth, and so hardy as to have borne the severity of last winter, 1795, without injury. in the collections about town we frequently find it in pots, kept with greenhouse plants. it is said to vary with white flowers. the best mode of raising it is from seed. 318 anthericum liliastrum. savoy anthericum, or st. bruno's lily. class and order. hexandria monogynia. generic character. cor. 6petala, patens. caps. ovata. specific character and synonyms. anthericum liliastrum foliis planis, scapo simplicissimo, corollis campanulatis, staminibus declinatis. linn. syst. vegetab. ed. 14. murr. p. 330. ait. kew. v. 1. p. 449. hemerocallis floribus patulis secundis. hall. hist. n. 1230. phalangium magno flore. bauh. pin. 29. phalangium allobrogicum majus. clus. cur. app. alt. phalangium allobrogicum. the savoye spiderwort. park. parad. p. 150. tab. 151. f. 1. illustration no. 318 botanists are divided in their opinions respecting the genus of this plant linnus considers it as an anthericum, haller and miller make it an hemerocallis. it is a native of switzerland, where, haller informs us, it grows abundantly in the alpine meadows, and even on the summits of the mountains with us it flowers in may and june. it is a plant of great elegance, producing on an unbranched stem about a foot and a half high, numerous flowers of a delicate white colour, much smaller but resembling in form those of the common white lily, possessing a considerable degree of fragrance, their beauty is heightened by the rich orange colour of their anther unfortunately they are but of short duration. miller describes two varieties of it differing merely in size. a loamy soil, a situation moderately moist, with an eastern or western exposure, suits this plant best so situated, it will increase by its roots, though not very fast, and by parting of these in the autumn, it is usually propagated. parkinson describes and figures it in his parad. terrest. observing that "divers allured by the beauty of its flowers, had brought it into these parts." 319 anagallis monelli. italian pimpernel. class and order. pentandria monogynia. generic character. cor. rotata. caps. circumscissa 1locularis, polysperma. specific character and synonyms. anagallis monelli, foliis lanceolatis caule erecto. linn. syst. veget. ed. 14. murr. p. 196. ait. kew. v. 1. p. 201. anagallis coerulea foliis binis ternisve ex adverso nascentibus. bauh. pin. 552. anagallis tenuifolia monnelli. clus. app. alt. illustration no. 319 in italy and spain, where this plant grows spontaneously, it is an annual, producing seed in abundance with us as far at least as we have observed it produces no seed, but like the senecio elegans, and some other annuals, is renewed, and rendered perennial by cuttings, which strike freely, and by which the plant requires to be renovated once or twice in a season though described as growing with an upright stem, it requires to be tied up to a stick and if this be neatly and dexterously done, its brilliant azure flowers springing from every side of the stem, render it a charming ornament for the greenhouse or window it flowers during most of the year. clusius called it anagallis monnelli, the first knowledge he had of the plant being from his friend johannes monnellus. on the same plant we find the leaves grow two, three, or four together, with flowers corresponding. 320 lobelia cardinalis. scarlet lobelia, or cardinal's flower. class and order. syngenesia monogamia. generic character. cal. 5fidus. cor. 1petala, irregularis. caps. infera 2, s. 3locularis. specific character and synonyms. lobelia cardinalis caule erecto, foliis latolanceolatis serratis, racemo terminali secundo. linn. syst. veg. ed. 14. murr. p. 801. ait. kew. v. 3. p. 284. rapuntium galeatum virginianum, coccineo flore majore. moris. hist. 2. p. 466. s. 5. t. 5. f. 54. trachelium americarum flore ruberrimo, sive planta cardinalis. the rich crimson cardinal's flower. park. parad. p. 356. t. 355. illustration no. 320 this species of lobelia, so eminently distinguished for the richness of its scarlet blossoms, is a native of the colder as well as warmer parts of northamerica. parkinson, who cultivated it in 1629, informs us that he received plants of it from france for his garden, and that "it groweth neere the river of canada, where the french plantation in america is seated." it is a hardy herbaceous plant, growing in favourable situations to the height of three or four feet the main spike of flowers which terminates the stalk, is often a foot in length by the time that most of its flowers are blown, side branches shoot out, and flower so that the plant continues in bloom six weeks or two months if the autumn prove favourable, the plant with us produces plenty of seed in the open ground to insure its ripening, some place pots of it, when blowing, in the greenhouse or stove. beautiful and hardy as this plant is, and long as it has been introduced to this country, we do not find it generally in gardens we attribute this to its having, in a greater degree than many other plants, a partiality for a particular soil in certain districts, where the soil is stiff and moist, it grows as freely as any weed, in other soils it is perpetually going off it is also one of those plants whose roots require to be often parted if this be done every autumn, and they be planted in a stiff loam, the situation somewhat moist and shady, this very desirable plant may be had to grow and blossom in perfection. it flowers from the latter end of july to october. is increased by parting its roots, by cuttings of the stalk and from seed. 321 cotyledon orbiculata. roundleaved navelwort. class and order. decandria pentagynia. generic character. cal. 5fidus. cor. 1petala. squam nectarifer 5 ad basin germinis. caps. 5. specific character and synonyms. cotyledon orbiculata foliis orbiculatis carnosis planis integerrimis, caule fruticoso. linn. syst. veg. ed. 14. murr. p. 428. ait. kew. var. delta v. 2. p. 106. cotyledon africanum frutescens incanum orbiculatis foliis. herm. lugd. 349. t. 551. moris. hist. 3. p. 474. s. 12. t. 7 f. 39. illustration no. 321 the cotyledon orbiculata is one of our oldest succulents, being introduced as long since as 1690, by mr. bentickc it still retains a place in most collections, deservedly indeed, for it has every claim to our notice its appearance is magnificent, the glaucous colour of its foliage highly pleasing, its flowers large and of long duration it blows freely, grows rapidly, is easily increased by cuttings, and will succeed in a house or window, with the common treatment of an african geranium. when suffered to grow, it will become a shrub of considerable size but this is not necessary for its flowering, as young and small plants are disposed to throw out blossoms, which is not the case with a plant extremely similar to, and often confounded with it, viz. the crassula cotyledon, whose foliage indeed scarcely differs from our plant but in being finely dotted. it is a native of the cape, and flowers from june or july to september. in the hort. kew. of mr. aiton, four varieties are enumerated, differing chiefly in the form of their foliage. footnote c ait. kew. 322 manulea tomentosa. woolly manulea. class and order. didynamia angiospermia. generic character. cal. 5partitus. cor. limbo 5partito, subulato laciniis superioribus 4 magis connexis. caps. 2locularis, polysperma. specific character and synonyms. manulea tomentosa foliis tomentosis, caulibus foliosis, pedunculis multifloris. linn. mant. 420. syst. veget. ed. 14. murr. p. 569. ait. kew. v. 2. p. 356. selago tomentosa foliis obovatis crenatis, caule prostrato, racemis ramosis. linn. amoen. acad. v. 6. p. 90. sp. pl. ed. 3. p. 877. planta pluk. phyt. 319. f. 2. illustration no. 322 linnus describes this plant in the amoenitates academic under the name of selago tomentosa, by which name he continues to call it in the third edition of the spec. pl. in his mantissa he describes it more minutely, and changes it to the genus manulea, first established by him in the said work he observes, that in this species the corolla is more regular than in the others. mr. aiton regards it as a biennial, its stalk is a foot or a foot and a half high, and woolly, its branches are opposite, not alternate as linnus describes them in this perhaps they may vary leaves opposite, sessile, obovate, narrowing to the base, toothed on the edge, edge rolled back a little in the young leaves, flowers grow in a long thyrsus, from two to five proceed from one common short peduncle they are at first lemoncoloured, or greenish yellow, finally deep orange linnus says the whole of the plant except the corolla is woolly, the tube of that even is hairy, the segments are smooth, with their edges rolled back, the upper part of the tube in which the stamina are included is dilated somewhat, as is also the lower part, so that it is narrowest in the middle. the flowers which make their appearance from may to november are usually succeeded by seeds, by which the plant is propagated. it is a native of the cape, and, according to mr. aiton, was introduced by mr. masson, in 1774. the blossoms have a singular but unpleasant smell, not perceivable at a distance. the variety of pleasant colours so conspicuous in the flowers, renders this rare plant desirable to such as aim at a general collection. 323 rubus odoratus. flowering raspberry. class and order. icosandria polygynia. generic character. cal. 5fidus. petala 5. bacca composita acinis monospermis. specific character and synonyms. rubus odoratus foliis simplicibus palmatis, caule inermi multifolio multifloro. linn. syst. veg. ed. 14. murr. p. 475. ait. kew. v. 2. p. 210. rubus odoratus. corn. canad. 149. t. 150. illustration no. 323 botanists and gardeners have given to this species of rubus the name of flowering, not because it is the only one which produces flowers, but from its being regarded for its flowers merely they indeed are so shewy, and so plentifully produced, that the plant has long been thought to merit a place in most shrubberies to the various inhabitants of which, both in the largeness and elegant form of its leaves, and the colour of its blossoms, it forms a pleasing contrast. it is extremely hardy, and easily propagated by suckers the only care which it requires, is to keep it within proper bounds young plants of it produce the largest and finest flowers. it blossoms from june to september, is a native of different and distant parts of northamerica, and was cultivated here by mr. miller, in 1739. cornutus, who first figured and described this plant, gave it the name of odoratus, on account of the fragrance of its foliage his words are "elegantissimi hujus folia fragrantissima sunt, paremque agrimonio odorato spirant odorem" the fruit, rarely produced with us, he observes, is like the common raspberry, but not so pleasant. 324 antirrhinum triphyllum. threeleaved toadflax. class and order. didynamia angiospermia. generic character. cal. 5phyllus. cor. basis deorsum prominens nectarifera. caps. 2locularis. specific character and synonyms. antirrhinum triphyllum foliis ternis ovatis. linn. syst. vegetab. ed. 14. murr. p. 555. ait. kew. linaria triphylla minor lutea. bauh. pin. 212. linaria triphylla coerulea. bauh. pin. 212. linaria hispanica. clus. hist. 1. p. 320. linaria valentina. tode flaxe of valentia. park. par. p. 268. illustration no. 324 the antirrhinum triphyllum, so called from the leaves growing by threes on the stalk a character, by the bye, not very constant was cultivated by parkinson, and described by him in his parad. terr. he appears to have been a stranger to the particoloured variety now so generally cultivated as an ornamental annual in our gardens in its wild state the flowers of this antirrhinum are of a yellow hue, with little or no purple in them, such indeed are frequently produced from seeds sown in our gardens. it is a hardy annual, a native of spain and sicily, a plant of ready growth, requiring the common treatment of annuals sown in the spring, and much disposed indeed to come up spontaneously where it has once grown in sowing its seeds, care should be taken to preserve the produce of such flowers as have the most purple in them. index. in which the latin names of the plants contained in the ninth volume are alphabetically arranged. pl. 295 agrostemma coeli rosa. 290 amaryllis lutea. 294 sarniensis. 305 equestris. 319 anagallis monelli. 324 antirrhinum triphyllum. 318 anthericum liliastrum. 293 catananche coerulea. 291 capparis spinosa. 321 cotyledon orbiculata. 289 convolvulus linearis. 313 daphne cneorum. 297 dianthus superbus. 303 erica ampullacea. 310 erinus alpinus. 314 genista triquetra. 300 gnaphalium eximium. 299 hermannia alnifolia. 304 lavendulifolia. 307 althifolia. 312 linum flavum. 320 lobelia cardinalis. 322 manulea tomentosa. 301 melianthus minor. 302 mimosa myrtifolia. 317 ononis fruticosa. 298 origanum dictamnus. 306 othonna pectinata. 292 passerina grandiflora. 309 pelargonium echinatum. 315 ceratophyllum. 316 polygala chambuxus. 311 robinia hispida. 323 rubus odoratus. 296 sempervivum tortuosum. 308 verbena aubletia. index. in which the english names of the plants contained in the ninth volume are alphabetically arranged. pl. 290 amaryllis yellow. 294 guernsey. 305 barbadoes. 318 anthericum savoy. 291 caper shrub. 293 catananche blue. 295 cockle smoothleaved. 289 convolvulus narrowleaved. 315 crane'sbill hornleaved. 300 cudweed giant. 313 daphne trailing. 298 dittany of crete. 310 erinus alpine. 312 flax yellow. 303 heath flask. 299 hermannia alderleaved. 304 lavenderleaved. 307 marshmallowleaved. 296 houseleek gouty. 314 genista triangularstalked. 309 geranium pricklystalked. 320 lobelia scarlet. 322 manulea woolly. 301 melianthus small. 316 milkwort boxleaved. 302 mimosa myrtleleaved. 321 navelwort roundleaved. 306 othonna wormwoodleaved. 292 passerina greatflowered. 319 pimpernel italian. 297 pink superb. 323 raspberry flowering. 317 restharrow shrubby. 311 robinia roughstalked. 324 toadflax threeleaved. 308 vervain rose. end of project gutenberg's the botanical magazine, vol. 9, by william curtis end of the project gutenberg ebook the botanical magazine, vol. 09 updated editions will replace the previous onethe old editions will be renamed. creating the works from print editions not protected by u.s. copyright law means that no one owns a united states copyright in these works, so the foundation and you! can copy and distribute it in the united states without permission and without paying copyright royalties. special rules, set forth in the general terms of use part of this license, apply to copying and distributing project gutenberg electronic works to protect the project gutenberg concept and trademark. project gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you charge for an ebook, except by following the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use of the project gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for copies of this ebook, complying with the trademark license is very easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and research. project gutenberg ebooks may be modified and printed and given awayyou may do practically anything in the united states with ebooks not protected by u.s. copyright law. redistribution is subject to the trademark license, especially commercial redistribution. start full license the full project gutenberg license please read this before you distribute or use this work to protect the project gutenberg mission of promoting the free distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work or any other work associated in any way with the phrase project gutenberg, you agree to comply with all the terms of the full project gutenberg license available with this file or online at section 1. general terms of use and redistributing project gutenberg electronic works 1.a. by reading or using any part of this project gutenberg electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property trademarkcopyright agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy all copies of project gutenberg electronic works in your possession. if you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a project gutenberg electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.e.8. 1.b. project gutenberg is a registered trademark. it may only be used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. there are a few things that you can do with most project gutenberg electronic works even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. see paragraph 1.c below. there are a lot of things you can do with project gutenberg electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement and help preserve free future access to project gutenberg electronic works. see paragraph 1.e below. 1.c. the project gutenberg literary archive foundation the foundation or pglaf, owns a compilation copyright in the collection of project gutenberg electronic works. nearly all the individual works in the collection are in the public domain in the united states. if an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the united states and you are located in the united states, we do not claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as all references to project gutenberg are removed. of course, we hope that you will support the project gutenberg mission of promoting free access to electronic works by freely sharing project gutenberg works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the project gutenberg name associated with the work. you can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the same format with its attached full project gutenberg license when you share it without charge with others. 1.d. the copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern what you can do with this work. copyright laws in most countries are in a constant state of change. if you are outside the united states, check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any other project gutenberg work. the foundation makes no representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any country other than the united states. 1.e. unless you have removed all references to project gutenberg 1.e.1. the following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate access to, the full project gutenberg license must appear prominently whenever any copy of a project gutenberg work any work on which the phrase project gutenberg appears, or with which the phrase project gutenberg is associated is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed, copied or distributed this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the united states and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or reuse it under the terms of the project gutenberg license included with this ebook or online at if you are not located in the united states, you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook. 1.e.2. if an individual project gutenberg electronic work is derived from texts not protected by u.s. copyright law does not contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the copyright holder, the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in the united states without paying any fees or charges. if you are redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase project gutenberg associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.e.1 through 1.e.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the project gutenberg trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.e.8 or 1.e.9. 1.e.3. if an individual project gutenberg electronic work is posted with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution must comply with both paragraphs 1.e.1 through 1.e.7 and any additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. additional terms will be linked to the project gutenberg license for all works posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work. 1.e.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full project gutenberg license terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this work or any other work associated with project gutenberg. 1.e.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.e.1 with active links or immediate access to the full terms of the project gutenberg license. 1.e.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary, compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access to or distribute copies of a project gutenberg work in a format other than plain vanilla ascii or other format used in the official version posted on the official project gutenberg website you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original plain vanilla ascii or other form. any alternate format must include the full project gutenberg license as specified in paragraph 1.e.1. 1.e.7. do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying, performing, copying or distributing any project gutenberg works unless you comply with paragraph 1.e.8 or 1.e.9. 1.e.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing access to or distributing project gutenberg electronic works provided that you pay a royalty fee of 20 of the gross profits you derive from the use of project gutenberg works calculated using the method you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. the fee is owed to the owner of the project gutenberg trademark, but he has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation. royalty payments must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you prepare or are legally required to prepare your periodic tax returns. royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation at the address specified in section 4, information about donations to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation. you provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies you in writing or by email within 30 days of receipt that she does not agree to the terms of the full project gutenberg license. you must require such a user to return or destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of project gutenberg works. you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.f.3, a full refund of any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of receipt of the work. you comply with all other terms of this agreement for free distribution of project gutenberg works. 1.e.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a project gutenberg electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from the project gutenberg literary archive foundation, the manager of the project gutenberg trademark. contact the foundation as set forth in section 3 below. 1.f. 1.f.1. project gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread works not protected by u.s. copyright law in creating the project gutenberg collection. despite these efforts, project gutenberg electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain defects, such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment. 1.f.2. limited warranty, disclaimer of damages except for the right of replacement or refund described in paragraph 1.f.3, the project gutenberg literary archive foundation, the owner of the project gutenberg trademark, and any other party distributing a project gutenberg electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal fees. you agree that you have no remedies for negligence, strict liability, breach of warranty or breach of contract except those provided in paragraph 1.f.3. you agree that the foundation, the trademark owner, and any distributor under this agreement will not be liable to you for actual, direct, indirect, consequential, punitive or incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of such damage. 1.f.3. limited right of replacement or refund if you discover a defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can receive a refund of the money if any you paid for it by sending a written explanation to the person you received the work from. if you received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with your written explanation. the person or entity that provided you with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a refund. if you received the work electronically, the person or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further opportunities to fix the problem. 1.f.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth in paragraph 1.f.3, this work is provided to you asis, with no other warranties of any kind, express or implied, including but not limited to warranties of merchantability or fitness for any purpose. 1.f.5. some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by the applicable state law. the invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions. 1.f.6. indemnity you agree to indemnify and hold the foundation, the trademark owner, any agent or employee of the foundation, anyone providing copies of project gutenberg electronic works in accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production, promotion and distribution of project gutenberg electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do or cause to occur a distribution of this or any project gutenberg work, b alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any project gutenberg work, and c any defect you cause. section 2. information about the mission of project gutenberg project gutenberg is synonymous with the free distribution of electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers including obsolete, old, middleaged and new computers. it exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from people in all walks of life. volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the assistance they need are critical to reaching project gutenbergs goals and ensuring that the project gutenberg collection will remain freely available for generations to come. in 2001, the project gutenberg literary archive foundation was created to provide a secure and permanent future for project gutenberg and future generations. to learn more about the project gutenberg literary archive foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see sections 3 and 4 and the foundation information page at section 3. information about the project gutenberg literary archive foundation the project gutenberg literary archive foundation is a nonprofit 501c3 educational corporation organized under the laws of the state of mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the internal revenue service. the foundations ein or federal tax identification number is 646221541. contributions to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by u.s. federal laws and your states laws. the foundations business office is located at 809 north 1500 west, salt lake city, ut 84116, 801 5961887. email contact links and up to date contact information can be found at the foundations website and official page at section 4. information about donations to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation project gutenberg depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be freely distributed in machinereadable form accessible by the widest array of equipment including outdated equipment. many small donations 1 to 5,000 are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt status with the irs. the foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the united states. compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up with these requirements. we do not solicit donations in locations where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. to send donations or determine the status of compliance for any particular state visit while we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who approach us with offers to donate. international donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from outside the united states. u.s. laws alone swamp our small staff. please check the project gutenberg web pages for current donation methods and addresses. donations are accepted in a number of other ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. to donate, please visit section 5. general information about project gutenberg electronic works professor michael s. hart was the originator of the project gutenberg concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared with anyone. for forty years, he produced and distributed project gutenberg ebooks with only a loose network of volunteer support. project gutenberg ebooks are often created from several printed editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in the u.s. unless a copyright notice is included. thus, we do not necessarily keep ebooks in compliance with any particular paper edition. most people start at our website which has the main pg search facility this website includes information about project gutenberg, including how to make donations to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation, how to help produce our new ebooks, and how to subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new ebooks.