 a little catechism with little verses and little sayings for little children produced by anna c. haugen, frank van drogen and pg distributed proofreaders a little catechism, with little verses, and little sayings, for little children. london, printed for john lawrence at the angel in the poultrey, 1692. a catalogue of books, c. husband mr. joseph rowlandson, c. remarks on the affairs of trade of england and ireland, c. officium cleri desiderium populi, or canonical obedience asserted and proved to be the duty of gospel ministers, and the desire of all good hearers. books in octavo. the catechizing of families, a teacher of householders how to teach their households useful also to schoolmasters and tutors of youth. scripture gospel defended, and christ, grace, and free justification vindicated against the libertines, in two books. the first a breviate of fifty controversies. second upon the reprinting of dr. crisp's sermon. full and easy satisfaction, which is the true religion, in a conference between a doubter, a papist, and a reformed catholic christian. a key for catholics to open the jugling of the jesuits, containing some arguments by which the meanest may see the vanity of popery, c. a catechism for little children to learn. question. who made you? answer. god. quest. who redeemed you? answ. jesus christ. quest. who sanctifieth and preserves you? answ. the holy ghost. quest. wherefore did god make you? answ. to serve him. quest. how must he be served? answ. in spirit and in truth. quest. what is it to serve god? answ. to keep his commandements. quest. how many commandments be there? answ. ten. quest. which be they? answ. the same which god spoke in the twentieth chapter of exodus, saying, i am the lord thy god, who brought thee out of the land of egypt, out of the house of bondage. quest. which is the first? answ. thou shalt have no other gods before me. quest. which is the second? answ. thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth thou shalt not bow down thy self to them, nor serve them for i the lord thy god am a jealous god, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me, and showing mercy unto thousands, of them that love me and keep my commandements. quest. which is the third? answ. thou shalt not take the name of the lord thy god in vain for the lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain. quest. which is the fourth? answ. remember the sabbathday to keep it holy, six days shalt thou labour and do all thy work, but the seventh day is the sabbath of the lord thy god, in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattel, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates for in six dayes the lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day wherefore the lord blessed the sabbathday, and hallowed it. quest. which is the fifth? answ. honour thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long upon the land which the lord thy god giveth thee. quest. which is the sixth? answ. thou shalt not kill. quest. which is the seventh? answ. thou shalt not commit adultery. quest.. which is the eighth? answ. thou shalt not steal. quest. which is the ninth? answ. thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour. quest. which is the tenth? answ. thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbours wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his oxe, nor his ass, nor any thing that is thy neighbour's. quest. are you bound to keep all these commandments? answ. yes. quest. are you bound to keep them in thought, word, and deed? answ. yes. quest. how are you bound to keep them? answ. by my baptism and by the word of god. quest. are you able to keep them of your self? answ. no. quest. why so? answ. because i was conceived and born in sin. quest. from whence was that? answ. from adam's fall. quest. how did adam fall? answ. by eating the forbidden fruit. quest. do you sin daily? answ. yes. quest. what is sin? answ. the breaking of god's law. quest. what doth sin deserve? answ. hell. quest. what is hell? answ. darkness and torments. quest. how long doth it last? answ. for ever and ever. quest. is it not a sad thing to lie under the wrath of god for ever? to lie in devouring flames for ever? answ. yes. quest. can you deliver your self from hell? answ. no. quest. how must you be delivered. answ. only by jesus christ? quest. who is jesus christ? answ. the son of god. quest. is he not man also? answ. yes. he was always god, and in the fullness of time became man, and so he is both god and man, in two natures, and one person for ever. quest. what hath christ done for sinners? answ. he hath died for them. quest. what death did he die? answ. the death of the cross. quest. why died he that death? answ. because it is written, cursed is he that hangeth upon a tree. quest. did christ bear the curse of god that was due to sinners? answ. yes. quest. are all the world saved by him? answ. no. quest. why so? answ. because he is not theirs. quest. what must we do, that christ may be ours? answ. believe on him. quest. what is it to believe on him? answ. to rest upon him for salvation. quest. what grounds of encouragement have we to rest upon christ for salvation? answ. these six 1. he is an only saviour. 2. he is an able saviour. 3. he is a willing saviour. 4. he is a faithful saviour. 5. he is a suitable saviour. 6. he is an offered saviour. quest. when is christ offered? answ. in the gospel. quest. name some places? answ. john 3. 16. god so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. john 6. 37. him that comes unto me, i will in no wise cast out. i tim. 1. 15. this is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that jesus christ came into the world to save sinners. quest. multitudes are called and invited, why do they not come to christ? answ. because they are not humble. quest. why are they not humble? answ. because they do not see their sins and sinfulness. quest. what must we do that we may see our sins and our sinfulnesses? answ. 1. we must search the scriptures. 2. we must hear the word of god preached. 3. we must examine our consciences. 4. we must pray to god for his spirit. quest. if a poor creature comes to christ, crying, lamenting and confessing his sins, will christ receive him? answ. yes, yes his mercifull arms are spread wide open to receive him. quest. what will the lord do for such a one that comes to him? answ. 1. he will pardon all their sins. 2. he will give them grace. 3. he will give them peace. 4. he will comfort them. 5. he will provide for them. 6. he will take their parts. 7. he will bring them to heaven. quest. what is heaven? answ. an everlasting enjoyment of god in glory. quest. when the lord has done this for a poor creature, what must he do for this good god of his? answ. he must be humble and thankful. quest. how must he shew himself humble and thankful? answ. he must love the lord with all his heart, with all his soul, and serve the lord with all his strength, and he must love his neighbour as himself, and for the lords sake and this he must do all the dayes of his life. verses, for little children to learn. i must pray both night and day. before i eat, i must entreat that god would bless to me my meat. i must not play on the sabbathday but i must hear god's word in fear. i must not swear. i must not lye, i must not feign, i must not take god's name in vain. i must not rail. i must not steal. it is a sin to steal a pin, much more to steal a greater thing. it's better for me to be poor, and beg my bread from door to door, than to steal my neighbour's store. i must work, and i must pray, and god will feed me day by day, mine honest labours god will bless, but he hateth idleness. my king, and all my governors, my parents and superiors, these i must honour and obey, to these i must my duty pay. i must not be rude nor wild, i must not be a wanton child i must sing no wanton songs, i must forgive my neighbours wrongs i must speak of no man ill, but to all must bear good will i had better die than tell a lie. i must not sin, a world to win. my tongue must do no wrong. if my tongue do here rebel, then my tongue must burn in hell. i must read, i must heed, and on the scriptures i must feed. i must put my trust in christ above, the god of love. christ alone my soul can save, and raise my body from the grave. christ alone must have my heart, christ and i must never part. lord, grant that i in faith may dye, and live with christ eternally! amen. sayings, for little children to learn. remember thy creator in the dayes of thy youth and thy creator will remember thee in the dayes of thy old age. praying is better than playing. grace is better than gold. singing of psalms is better than ringing of bells. mothers love young children, and christ loves young saints. it is better not to live in the world, than to live without god in the world. one day in god's courts, is better than a thousand elsewhere. god's presence makes heaven, and god's absence makes hell. if i draw nigh to god, god will draw nigh to me. in god's favour is life, and in god's displeasure is death. if i put off my repentance to another day, i have a day more to repent of, and a day, less to repent in. christ is a poor sinners hope. christ's blood is a souls ransom. to have a portion in the world is a mercy, but to have the world for a portion is misery. an interest in christ is the greatest interest. the love of god is sweeter than wine, and better than life. god's ways are the best ways, god's peace is the best peace, and god's people are the best people. the worst of the ways of god, are better than the best of the ways of sin. 'tis better to suffer the greatest suffering in the world, than to sin the least sin in the world. a poor man is better than a liar. without holiness no man shall see the lord. if i be not holy, heaven cannot make me happy. i must do the lordswork on the lordsday. if i want a dram of grace to tame my tongue, the time will come when i shall want a drop of water to cool my tongue. finis. end of the project gutenberg ebook a little catechism with little verses and little sayings for little children updated editions will replace the previous onethe old editions will be renamed. creating the works from print editions not protected by u.s. copyright law means that no one owns a united states copyright in these works, so the foundation and you! can copy and distribute it in the united states without permission and without paying copyright royalties. special rules, set forth in the general terms of use part of this license, apply to copying and distributing project gutenberg electronic works to protect the project gutenberg concept and trademark. project gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you charge for an ebook, except by following the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use of the project gutenberg trademark. if you do not charge anything for copies of this ebook, complying with the trademark license is very easy. you may use this ebook for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and research. project gutenberg ebooks may be modified and printed and given awayyou may do practically anything in the united states with ebooks not protected by u.s. copyright law. redistribution is subject to the trademark license, especially commercial redistribution. start full license the full project gutenberg license please read this before you distribute or use this work to protect the project gutenberg mission of promoting the free distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work or any other work associated in any way with the phrase project gutenberg, you agree to comply with all the terms of the full project gutenberg license available with this file or online at section 1. general terms of use and redistributing project gutenberg electronic works 1.a. by reading or using any part of this project gutenberg electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property trademarkcopyright agreement. if you do not agree to abide by all the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy all copies of project gutenberg electronic works in your possession. if you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a project gutenberg electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.e.8. 1.b. project gutenberg is a registered trademark. it may only be used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. there are a few things that you can do with most project gutenberg electronic works even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. see paragraph 1.c below. there are a lot of things you can do with project gutenberg electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement and help preserve free future access to project gutenberg electronic works. see paragraph 1.e below. 1.c. the project gutenberg literary archive foundation the foundation or pglaf, owns a compilation copyright in the collection of project gutenberg electronic works. nearly all the individual works in the collection are in the public domain in the united states. if an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the united states and you are located in the united states, we do not claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as all references to project gutenberg are removed. of course, we hope that you will support the project gutenberg mission of promoting free access to electronic works by freely sharing project gutenberg works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the project gutenberg name associated with the work. you can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the same format with its attached full project gutenberg license when you share it without charge with others. 1.d. the copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern what you can do with this work. copyright laws in most countries are in a constant state of change. if you are outside the united states, check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any other project gutenberg work. the foundation makes no representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any country other than the united states. 1.e. unless you have removed all references to project gutenberg 1.e.1. the following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate access to, the full project gutenberg license must appear prominently whenever any copy of a project gutenberg work any work on which the phrase project gutenberg appears, or with which the phrase project gutenberg is associated is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed, copied or distributed this ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the united states and most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions whatsoever. you may copy it, give it away or reuse it under the terms of the project gutenberg license included with this ebook or online at if you are not located in the united states, you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook. 1.e.2. if an individual project gutenberg electronic work is derived from texts not protected by u.s. copyright law does not contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the copyright holder, the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in the united states without paying any fees or charges. if you are redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase project gutenberg associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.e.1 through 1.e.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the project gutenberg trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.e.8 or 1.e.9. 1.e.3. if an individual project gutenberg electronic work is posted with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution must comply with both paragraphs 1.e.1 through 1.e.7 and any additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. additional terms will be linked to the project gutenberg license for all works posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work. 1.e.4. do not unlink or detach or remove the full project gutenberg license terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this work or any other work associated with project gutenberg. 1.e.5. do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.e.1 with active links or immediate access to the full terms of the project gutenberg license. 1.e.6. you may convert to and distribute this work in any binary, compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any word processing or hypertext form. however, if you provide access to or distribute copies of a project gutenberg work in a format other than plain vanilla ascii or other format used in the official version posted on the official project gutenberg website you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original plain vanilla ascii or other form. any alternate format must include the full project gutenberg license as specified in paragraph 1.e.1. 1.e.7. do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying, performing, copying or distributing any project gutenberg works unless you comply with paragraph 1.e.8 or 1.e.9. 1.e.8. you may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing access to or distributing project gutenberg electronic works provided that you pay a royalty fee of 20 of the gross profits you derive from the use of project gutenberg works calculated using the method you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. the fee is owed to the owner of the project gutenberg trademark, but he has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation. royalty payments must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you prepare or are legally required to prepare your periodic tax returns. royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation at the address specified in section 4, information about donations to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation. you provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies you in writing or by email within 30 days of receipt that she does not agree to the terms of the full project gutenberg license. you must require such a user to return or destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of project gutenberg works. you provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.f.3, a full refund of any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of receipt of the work. you comply with all other terms of this agreement for free distribution of project gutenberg works. 1.e.9. if you wish to charge a fee or distribute a project gutenberg electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from the project gutenberg literary archive foundation, the manager of the project gutenberg trademark. contact the foundation as set forth in section 3 below. 1.f. 1.f.1. project gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread works not protected by u.s. copyright law in creating the project gutenberg collection. despite these efforts, project gutenberg electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain defects, such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by your equipment. 1.f.2. limited warranty, disclaimer of damages except for the right of replacement or refund described in paragraph 1.f.3, the project gutenberg literary archive foundation, the owner of the project gutenberg trademark, and any other party distributing a project gutenberg electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal fees. you agree that you have no remedies for negligence, strict liability, breach of warranty or breach of contract except those provided in paragraph 1.f.3. you agree that the foundation, the trademark owner, and any distributor under this agreement will not be liable to you for actual, direct, indirect, consequential, punitive or incidental damages even if you give notice of the possibility of such damage. 1.f.3. limited right of replacement or refund if you discover a defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can receive a refund of the money if any you paid for it by sending a written explanation to the person you received the work from. if you received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with your written explanation. the person or entity that provided you with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a refund. if you received the work electronically, the person or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. if the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further opportunities to fix the problem. 1.f.4. except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth in paragraph 1.f.3, this work is provided to you asis, with no other warranties of any kind, express or implied, including but not limited to warranties of merchantability or fitness for any purpose. 1.f.5. some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages. if any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by the applicable state law. the invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions. 1.f.6. indemnity you agree to indemnify and hold the foundation, the trademark owner, any agent or employee of the foundation, anyone providing copies of project gutenberg electronic works in accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production, promotion and distribution of project gutenberg electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do or cause to occur a distribution of this or any project gutenberg work, b alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any project gutenberg work, and c any defect you cause. section 2. information about the mission of project gutenberg project gutenberg is synonymous with the free distribution of electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers including obsolete, old, middleaged and new computers. it exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from people in all walks of life. volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the assistance they need are critical to reaching project gutenbergs goals and ensuring that the project gutenberg collection will remain freely available for generations to come. in 2001, the project gutenberg literary archive foundation was created to provide a secure and permanent future for project gutenberg and future generations. to learn more about the project gutenberg literary archive foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see sections 3 and 4 and the foundation information page at section 3. information about the project gutenberg literary archive foundation the project gutenberg literary archive foundation is a nonprofit 501c3 educational corporation organized under the laws of the state of mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the internal revenue service. the foundations ein or federal tax identification number is 646221541. contributions to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by u.s. federal laws and your states laws. the foundations business office is located at 809 north 1500 west, salt lake city, ut 84116, 801 5961887. email contact links and up to date contact information can be found at the foundations website and official page at section 4. information about donations to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation project gutenberg depends upon and cannot survive without widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be freely distributed in machinereadable form accessible by the widest array of equipment including outdated equipment. many small donations 1 to 5,000 are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt status with the irs. the foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the united states. compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up with these requirements. we do not solicit donations in locations where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. to send donations or determine the status of compliance for any particular state visit while we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who approach us with offers to donate. international donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from outside the united states. u.s. laws alone swamp our small staff. please check the project gutenberg web pages for current donation methods and addresses. donations are accepted in a number of other ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. to donate, please visit section 5. general information about project gutenberg electronic works professor michael s. hart was the originator of the project gutenberg concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared with anyone. for forty years, he produced and distributed project gutenberg ebooks with only a loose network of volunteer support. project gutenberg ebooks are often created from several printed editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in the u.s. unless a copyright notice is included. thus, we do not necessarily keep ebooks in compliance with any particular paper edition. most people start at our website which has the main pg search facility this website includes information about project gutenberg, including how to make donations to the project gutenberg literary archive foundation, how to help produce our new ebooks, and how to subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new ebooks.